[music]
the direction of travel. Things look
great right now.
>> We're entering this phase of AI
application.
>> AI is not a bubble. I think it's still a
boom and a structural change. And that's
why we are constructive for next year.
>> AI is certainly going to change the
world, but who are going to be the
winners in that?
>> You can look at either side of the coin
on so much of the data that's out here
and you could either be bullish or
bearish. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and Ann Marie
Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks rangebound as
[music] traders curb their enthusiasm
about Fed rate cuts with US yields
rising to the highest levels in almost
three months. Macro analysis giving way
to boardroom drama with Parammont's
hostile takeover bid for Warner Brothers
setting the stage for a new chapter in
the media landscape. and Nvidia notching
a win with President Trump signing off
on sales of H200 [music] chips to China.
If we sell it, will they buy? I think
Emory, that is the ultimate question.
That's a great question cuz [music] over
the summer, remember when the
administration gave the green light for
the H20 chips, China told their firms,
"Do not buy [music] these chips. We are
shrugging them off." This morning, just
moments ago, the Financial Times is
reporting about how Chinese regulators
are discussing [music] ways to limit
permits for the access to the H200
chips. buyers need to go through an
approval process. So basically maybe
some Chinese companies can buy them but
not all of them because remember China
wants to make sure [music] that they
have their own national champion. You
know this really is notable because you
saw AMD shares rally in tandem with
Nvidia [music] last night as this was
announced and it raised this question is
the concept of national security
changing [music] at a time where this
administration is taking a greater
clutch over corporate America than ever
before. Is there a sense that there is
more of a risk for US [music] tech
companies not to have a presence
internationally than to potentially
sequester some of the high-tech
technology away from China? This is a
live active [music] debate right now at
the White House. Individuals who think
you need to get the world addicted to US
technology and others who think [music]
you cannot give China an inch when it
comes to the most advanced chips when it
comes to national security because
[music] it's not just iPhones that these
chips go in. These are used for the
military. this debate is active and at
the moment it looks like the tech sector
[music] especially Jensen Wong who was
just in Washington DC is winning this
debate and I think for a lot of people
especially China [music] hawks in
Washington who really backed the
president in 2016 because they liked his
rhetoric on China are thinking this is a
huge pivot but right now a huge pivot
also for the media landscape and this is
something that we keep watching it will
be the game of thrones that everyone is
looking for the next season the idea
that Paramount coming out with a hostile
bid to take over Warner Brothers after
Netflix's [music] offer. Some of the
characters behind this are just pretty
impressive. The idea of Jared Kushner of
Abu [music] Dhabi of Saudi Arabia all
lining up to get behind David Ellison
who is saying to shareholders, look,
vote for us because we have the sign off
[music] from President Trump. How much
is this ultimately who gets the the
blessing of the president in order to
carry this through?
>> The president is being quite koi
yesterday. He said, "None of these
individuals are really my friends."
which you'd have to think for his
son-in-law Jared Kushner, that one
potentially was a dagger in the heart.
But when it comes to Affinity Partners,
his private equity [music] firm and some
of these sovereign wealth funds, yes,
they're there showing up with the
backing and the capital, but they will
not get a seat on the [music] board,
which is why the Ellison family thinks
in the end they can get regulatory
approval for this. But this doesn't look
like it's going to be ending. Of course,
Warner Brothers now valued with this
Paramount deal $108 billion. They're
going to have 10 days, I believe it is,
and then Netflix will have another four
days. This can potentially become a
fight. And I think this is classic
Trump. The same way we see him pick say
a Treasury secretary in the Game of
Thrones, War of Roses, Bachelor, however
you want to call it. He's almost in
putting himself in the middle of this
and [music] he thinks that it should be
the best deal for Warner Brothers. Let's
see. Yeah. The other drama is Barbarians
at the Gate. Right now, the drama is
also heading into the Fed meeting that
starts today, ends tomorrow with a rate
decision. Taking a look at the drum
[music] beat to that. We get the Jolts
job openings data coming out at 10:00
a.m. Eastern. Then later today, we do
get some uh some auctions [music]
as well as heading into tomorrow, we get
ECI, we get Oracle earnings and that Fed
rate decision and then jobless claims
[music] coming on Thursday. Right now,
futures a little changed after breaking
their 4-day winning streak yesterday.
Really, it is all predicated on the
yield space. The idea that yields are
rising. Today we're seeing a little bit
of a reversal after [music] another two
basis point sell-off increase in yields
uh given the fact that we're looking at
yields that are hovering near the
highest levels going back to [music]
September. Is this because of the Fed or
is this despite the Fed given the
geopolitics and the global landscape?
Coming up this hour, John Stoz [music]
of Poppenheimer with stocks looking for
direction ahead of a key Fed rate
decision. and Wendy Schiller of Brown
University as President Trump ramps up
his affordability message and Port of
Los Angeles executive director Gene
Sroka and how tariffs are impacting
global trade. We begin this hour with
stocks holding steady as investors look
ahead to that 2-day Fed meeting. John
Sulfus of Oppenheimer raising his
year-end price target on the S&P 500 for
2026 to a street high of 8,100 once
again the biggest bull on Wall Street
writing monetary policy fiscal policy
and the continuing progress of
innovation and corporate earnings growth
are key to growing earnings and revenues
in the year ahead. John joins us now.
John, you have been the biggest bull and
you have been right. Why do you think
this time people are getting it wrong
about how accommodative both monetary
and fiscal policy makers are going to
be? Well, I I I I think Lisa, the big
thing is, you know, we're in a process
of normalization of interest rates
coming out of uh uh a hike cycle and a
remarkable hike cycle because the Fed
raised rates 11 times on pause 14 with
only five cuts in this whole process,
but no recession brought inflation
growth down from 9.7 to based on the PCE
last week sometime between 2.8 and
three. So, you know, it looks pretty
good. It shows sensitivity for the dual
mandate, a balance. There's a bit of a
walking the tight rope uh for uh Jerome
Powell, but I think he loves it. He's a
real pro. And I I think, you know, he's
got to walk the tight rope here to give
you a little bit of balance so we get
enough stimulus for the economy
essentially for sustainable growth
without upsetting the job cart terribly.
And we we move forward and around the
world, you know, and it we've seen it
interest rate cuts and now the thought
that maybe it's gone too far. I think
this is a lot like the different that
it's got the override of the Bernani
legacy, high transparency,
communications uh in its policy, the way
the Fed operates, but it's we're looking
for that normalization and inflation
tends to be stickier for longer after
you've had a period of untored levels of
inflation. Takes a while to work out in
the system and it's a drama that traders
and investors need to work out and play
to their benefit.
>> Right now the drama is playing out. You
are seeing people ratchet back their
expectations for rate cuts next week to
now next year to now two rate cuts from
three just a couple of weeks ago. I am
wondering though how much that matters
versus the AI trade. I mean there was a
recent Goldman Sach survey of investors
and they agree with you on the basis
that you will get Fed rate cuts but they
disagree that you're going to get that
kind of screaming return because the AI
trade is hitting some roadblocks and
isn't in hyperrowth mode. How much do
you buy into that? uh you know it it
it's some of that sounds to me like the
trading establishment in a way uh
because it's the action where where can
where can you add bips to the bucket you
know in trading working with the spread
and the daily basis I' I' I'd have to
say this is not just not uncommon I mean
there's always questions you've got you
have to invest a lot of money to do what
this proposes to do whether it's the
data centers whether it's all the the
ancillary software and the design
changes to be made. But the companies
that are doing it are very well
positioned in terms of their balance
sheet. And when they borrow money, it's
probably because they rather keep the
cash on the balance sheet and just use
other people's money. OPM, other
people's money, the old thing for the
old days, right? And so I look at it, it
looks to me AI is for real. You know, I
think what whenever I talk to people who
are institutional users, and I don't
mean just in finance, but if it's health
care, consumer discretionary, insurance,
what have you, people are using AI, and
it's and and the consumers are using it
either for fun or just to shock each
other what they can do with GPT or
whatever the heck it's called. You know
what I mean? When they put your face on
somebody else, you know, and you're
running down the street,
>> what you look like as a 130 year old,
[laughter]
>> you know? There you go. And it's the
whole thing is it's just not uncommon.
It just looks to me like and haven't I
been here before? But the wonderful
thing about this in a digitalized
environment, the market tends to
discount both good news and bad news
fairly quickly. And that what's gives us
this effect of one day the traders own
the market, the next day it's
intermediate and long-term investors as
they buy up the babies that got threw
out with the bathwater the next day.
Then they visit mids and smalls. than
they got. It's a rotating market, but
it's it it discounts good news and bad
news more quickly because the digital
news travels faster. It's quicker to
analyze, determine, and the play is the
play is on.
>> John, we got in terms of the play is on
Nvidia is getting the green light to
sell the H200s in China. When you look
at that decision by the administration,
does it say to you that in 2026 trade
tensions are going to be a little bit
more quiet than they were this year? You
know, that's a tough one to say because
when it comes to trade tension, it seems
to be just part of the way things work
with the current administration, but
likely would also continue on with any
other administration because that's the
way President G operates. Also, there's
a there's a balance between uh fig leaf
and uh the uh the the m the the axe. you
know, it's a constant uh this is a game
of chess and it's not a friendly one,
but ultimately both sides want trade
because trade is peace is more
profitable than building war machines
and battling each other. Look what's
happened to Russia financially really
when you look at what the cost of doing
what they've done to Ukraine has been.
Uh and on the other hand, if you if you
play with your your financial partners
nicely, you know, and and you compete,
you you really you produce better
results for your own people and you also
improve the uh for China it would be the
Silk Road and the success of that the
competition that's occurring then and
what is felt by other emerging markets.
It's just you know it it it's just this
is the way things work. But the tension
it's like they often say the market
doesn't like uncertainty. It loves it.
The traders love uncertainty. Both sides
can benefit. Intermediate to long-term
investors. Again, babies that get thrown
out with the bathwater. The traders
looking for the bips. A new a new vanity
plate for the trophy car.
>> Yeah. And uh maybe bonfire of the vanity
play. I am curious going forward about
how much you see this rotation as
durable given the fact that you still
see the AI stalwarts as really having a
lot of the strength. Are they going to
keep leading or do you think that there
is this durable shift? That is that is
that's a that that's a great question
and and I think it it what we have seen
since 23 and many people deny it has
been a broadening of the rally with
other sectors sharing the stage with uh
with uh information technology and
communication services which is where
the streamers and the the social media
and the search engines are as well as
the old phone codes. Uh but when you
look at it, it it it's you're in a
situation where other sectors like
financials, industrials, health care,
utilities are beginning to find interest
by investors, more greater
diversification in portfolios
to benefit from the other nine sectors
that can benefit from technology. Uh any
company that wants to keep a competitive
edge needs AI. Any company that wants to
gain a competitive edge needs AI. Any
company that just wants to maintain a
good premise as a value company to
attract and maintain investor loyalty
needs AI. Yeah,
>> it looks like into the future. It's it's
you know here here we go. What what what
is it? Back to the future. Here we go.
>> I'm going to have that soundtrack in my
head all morning. John SP of Oenheimer,
thank you so much with into the future.
All right. Right now, let's get you an
update on sales stories elsewhere this
morning. No one has to listen to me
sing. Here is your Bloomberg booth with
Yahira on it. Yah.
>> Hi, Lisa. President Donald Trump granted
Nvidia permission to ship its H200 AI
chip to China [music] in exchange for a
25% cut of the sales. The move means the
world's most valuable company could
regain billions of dollars in lost
business. President Trump says the sales
would only go to quote approved [music]
customers and that chip makers such as
Intel and AMD would also be eligible.
Meanwhile, Paramount Skyance launching a
hostile takeover bid for Warner
Brothers. [music] The move coming just
days after the company agreed to a deal
with Netflix. The offer stands at $30 a
share in cash compared [music] with
Netflix's cash and stock bid of just
under $28 per share. President Donald
Trump whose son-in-law Jared Kushner is
participating in the Paramount bid
Paramount [music] bid saying he's not
close to Paramount nor Netflix. and
PepsiCo announcing a series of
operational changes backed by [music]
activist investor Elliot Management. The
moves include cutting nearly 20% of its
US product lineup, investing [music] in
more affordable products and layoffs in
North America. Elliot says the plans
will drive greater revenue [music] and
profit growth. That's your brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yay. Yeah, the
activist influence over Pepsi going to
affordability. Everyone seems to be
looking for that value, affordability.
We hear that from every company. We're
hearing that increasingly from the
administration
>> because the consumer is demanding
[music] it. They're demanding it in
polls and they're demanding it when they
go and they're shopping. Yeah. Up next,
we're going to talk about that. All
about affordability.
>> My administration and our partners in
Congress will continue our work to lower
the cost of living and make America
affordable again. Affordability, they
call it, was a conj job by the by the
Democrats. We did a great job on
groceries and affordability. The only
problem is the fake news. Wendy Schiller
of Brown University joins us next to
talk about that. Right [music] now,
futures fluctuating as that meeting does
start to take place in Washington DC
with the FOMC. This is [music] Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> looking for direction ahead of a Federal
Reserve meeting where people broadly
expect there to be a rate cut. But the
real question is what will the signal be
going forward? Right now, you're seeing
uh just a fluctuation in futures. After
yesterday, we saw a 4-day winning streak
snapped. Meanwhile, yields inflected
downward just a little bit after a
losing streak [music] in terms of yields
higher that has sent yields close to the
highest levels going back to the end of
[music] September. a real question of
how much more the Fed can actually cut
rates. Very much front and focus for all
of Wall Street is this boardroom drama
that is going to turn out to be the
blockbuster of the year. A question of
Paramount's hostile bid for Warner
Brothers after Netflix came out with a
uh $2775
share in cash stock uh in cash in stock
bid [music]
for uh Warner Brothers. Paramount came
out for $30 a share in cash. some of the
players behind this just really eyebrow
raising when it comes to [music] trying
to curry favor with the White House.
>> Oh, absolutely. Especially Affinity
Partners, which is part of the paramount
bid. Of course, this is led [music] by
the president's son-in-law, Jared
Kushner. He did tell reporters yesterday
he hasn't spoken to him about it.
There's also [music] the uh sovereign
wealth funds of Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates. [music] Qataris are
involved in this. What's going to be
critical for whoever gets [music] the
green light is the regulators. What are
they going to say about, as you say, the
characters that are involved, but also
the market share and [music] what this
means? Paramount thinks that because
Netflix has ready such a stronghold in
the streaming sphere [music] that
they're going to be able to get that
green light. Remains to be seen. Whoever
buys it needs to make a movie about this
deal.
>> I think that that would be probably the
next blockbuster. Right now, we're
looking at breakup fees of $5.8 billion
for Netflix and $5 billion uh by
Paramount. So, someone's going to get
paid quite a bit of money. Getting paid
is key and front and focus for a lot of
Americans as affordability concerns come
[music] front and center under
surveillance this morning all about
affordability.
>> My administration and our partners in
Congress will continue our work to lower
the cost of living and make America
affordable again.
>> Affordability they call it was a conj
job by the by the Democrats. We did a
great job on groceries and
affordability. The only problem is the
fake news. There's this fake narrative
that the Democrats talk about
affordability. They just say the word,
it doesn't mean anything to anybody.
>> Just about everything is down. You know,
this whole thing is they use the word
affordability. It's a Democrat hoax.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
traveling to Pennsylvania later today to
promote his economic agenda as more
polls show affordability is the dominant
concern for Americans. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now for more. Tyler,
uh, great to see you. What are we
expecting to hear from President Trump
today?
>> Yeah. Hey, Lisa. Good morning. Well, we
have to keep in mind this really marks
the first big domestic policy speech for
the president that's going to be focused
on the cost of living after Republicans
suffered a slew of election losses last
month that really put the issue front
and center. And it's important context
here. We have to keep in mind that
President Trump really campaigned on the
issue of the economy. It's what helped
propel him to the White House. But as
you mentioned, recent polling and data,
including consumer sentiment, while
improving, is still around record lows.
And I'll even point you to our own
Harris poll conducted from Bloomberg
News in October, which showed that 55%
of Americans that are currently employed
are concerned about losing their job in
the next year. Now, President Trump is
going to tout those policies that we've
seen him roll out in really the last
month since election day. That includes
that investigation that was launched
over the weekend when it comes into the
food supply chain. President Trump
signing that executive order directing
the Department of Justice and FTC to
look into alleged price gouging and
unfair trade practices. He also
yesterday of course ruled out that aid
for farmers and we're also expecting him
to talk about some of the policies that
he's put forth but have yet to be
implemented such as his tariff rebate
checks. Though of course we know that
that does face some push back in
Congress. And Lisa, there's another
issue from Congress that could
complicate matters for President Trump.
That's the current debate over the path
forward when it comes to healthcare. Of
course, we're coming up on the end of
the year when those Affordable Care Act
premium premium tax subsidies are set to
expire. And right now, there is still
big debate, but not really action on
Capitol Hill on exactly how they could
address what could be a steep hike in
prices for Americans if we go over that
cliff. Now, Lisa, I'll also quickly add,
expect more of this from President
Trump. It's our understanding from the
White House that he's about to go on a
big domestic policy push around the
country.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much for
that. And one of those big domestic
pushes might be some reporting from
Politico this morning where President
Trump may make tariff changes to lower
some prices. Wendy Schiller for Brown
University joins us now with more.
Wendy, thank you so much for being with
us. I just want your take on some of the
focus on affordability and whether you
think it will resonate given some of the
proposals that are on deck.
Well, I mean, I think President Trump
realizes that he is losing a little bit
of his grip on the House of
Representatives in terms of his power
over the GOP. He's still a player in
primaries. So, we've got another
seven-month window, give or take, for
the Republicans to face primary
challenges. And that's where he gets his
leverage. But you can sense that the
House is you particularly GOP really
worried that this affordability or
economy or inflation or prices will cost
them control in the House and even
possibly the Senate now. So I think
that's the real overlaying uh issue here
is what do you do symbolically as the
president of the United States because
you know we all know all presidents have
a tough time getting a handle on prices
and inflation. But what do you do that
reassures Congress because if in fact he
loses his grip on the House of
Representatives this early, then he
really enters unchartered territory in
terms of his power to get anything done.
Symbolic of course is going on a tour
domestically. Here are also floating
$2,000 tariff dividend checks. Wendy, do
you think we're going to see that?
>> Well, Amry, it just immediately brought
to mind the stimulus checks during
COVID. And of course, we had multiple
checks, Trump and Biden, and much of
that in terms of commentary uh was
thought to increase inflation. In other
words, you know, not good for the
economy and making things more
expensive. Uh so, I'm not sure that's
going to fly with consumers who remember
that. but also the base of the
Republican party that voted for Trump
that thinks government gives away too
much money to begin with. You know, do
you get these deficit hawk conservatives
in the house to give away more money and
you know making the connection between
the revenues gained by the tariffs, our
very large deficit, our national debt,
and then giving away government money.
It just seems like it's a package that
will be difficult to sell uh to
conservative Republicans in the House,
but also to their constituents. There's
a lot of talk as well that there's going
to be a number of Republicans that
retire from Congress. How difficult is
that going to be as the president tries
to tout this affordability? The the
economy is working ahead of the midterm
elections, but a lot of Republicans seem
to be wanting to get off the ship.
>> Right. So, there's a record number of
Republicans who are retiring going into
this midterm at the moment. It's not a
record number overall of members of
Congress. I'm watching the next couple
of weeks to figure out really if there's
going to be even more Republicans that
walk out the door. If they can't get any
kind of compromise on extended these
subsidies and the president has
basically indicated, even though, you
know, it depends on the day, he'll sign
it. If they give him an extension, he'll
probably sign it. Uh so if they don't do
that, then these Republicans have to go
home and they're in fact going to face
constituents who are paying a lot more
money for healthcare. And do they really
want to face that onslaught? So, if they
fail to get a deal, my instinct would be
that more Republicans would walk out the
door. Makes it much harder for Speaker
Johnson. And then you've got people like
Marjorie Taylor Green who, you know,
who's leaving uh who's then on the
outside and who can do nothing but
criticize the inside. So, the pressure
ramps up on the Republicans in the House
and that I think makes it harder for
President Trump. The farm subsidies,
remind me, the first term, 16 billion I
believe in the first term to farmers
because of tariffs. Now we're looking at
$12 billion that you can argue is an
unnecessary expense due to uh Trump's
tariff policy.
>> And there's a question of whether the
tariff policy will actually remain in
place altogether given some of the
recent proposals. Wendy Schiller of
Brown University, thank you so much.
Picking up on that political interview,
politico interview with President Trump.
a lot of information there in terms of
just his agenda going forward, what he
thinks about affordability about Ukraine
as well as the Federal Reserve and the
potential pick uh that he already seems
to emate have selected. Oh, he says he's
has it in his mind, but then he did call
the front runner Kevin Hasset a
potential Fed pick. In this interview,
he says um he says he thinks Jay Powell
is not a smart person, doesn't like
Trump, and he did the reason he doesn't
like Trump is because I hit him hard
because he's doing a bad job on interest
rates, but he didn't give a name. He
just kept talking about we're fighting
these interest rates. It's interesting
because obviously the Fed is meeting
today, but he didn't give a name on who
that person is in his mind that [music]
he's already made that decision on.
>> Meanwhile, Wall Street has a short
attention span and it's shifting very
quickly to the AI story away [music]
from the Fed chair drama. real question
of what national security means in the
case of some of the high-tech chips
coming out of the likes of Nvidia.
Coming up, we'll speak with Bloomberg's
Mark Bergen as Nvidia gets the green
light to sell those H200 chips in China.
[music] Plus, Danny Burgerer with your
morning movers. We'll be taking a look
at Nvidia shares which are rising after
that approval. Right now, they're
basically unchanged. This is Bloomberg
[music] Surveillance.
[music]
Looking for direction after snapping a
4-day winning uh winning streak. We're
looking right now at markets that are
grappling with the concept that maybe
that yes, the Fed will cut rates in the
two-day meeting that begins today, but
no, they will not continue cutting rates
aggressively next year. Now just two
rate cuts priced [music] in for the
entirety of 2026 are basically
rangebound across the board except for
the Russell 2000 once again [music]
eking out now performance with a 210%
gain. When you take a look at twos,
tens, and 30s, a bit of a reprieve after
a pretty violent sell-off. What we are
seeing at the front end is just
meandering. Really has been hovering
around that 360 [music] point, 358 right
now uh on that 2-year. 10-year yields
near the highs since they've been going
back to September after a pretty vicious
selloff. 415 [music] on that 10-year.
And 30-year yields also getting a little
bit of a bid down from the 4.8%. [music]
Take a look at Home Depot shares
pre-market trading right now. uh those
are lower by about 1.4%. It is investor
day for the uh home retailer, homeg
goods retailer offering some cautious
preliminary guidance for next year
without really seeing a revival in the
housing market.
>> Right. So there's two things. Even
though some mortgage rates actually
mortgage rates are lower, they're seeing
[music] that less and less families are
able to get on the housing ladder. And
then even if families [music] were have
a home and they want to refurbish and do
work on construction, they're not able
to do it right now just because of the
state of the economy. [music] And it
comes back to what we were just talking
about Wendy Schiller and Tyler Kendall
about this idea of affordability. So
right now they just expect [music]
comparable sales growth to be in the
range of flat to up to 2% for the year.
It is their investor day. So they do
have a very rosy picture. But we would
need to see the housing market turn for
that. Which is a reason why after about
10% losses so far this year, [music]
you're seeing additional losses in
pre-market trading. Three hours away
from the cash open. Here are your
morning movers with Danny Ber. Danny.
>> Hey Lisa. Starting with Nvidia after
President Trump posting on Truth Social
that he will allow the sale of H200
chips to China. [music] Those shares now
little change. They were up as much as
1%. So maybe some questions now being
asked in just how this will work. The
Commerce Department telling Bloomberg
that it would work via the form of a 25%
tariff. That's what the revenue share
that the US wants with Nvidia when the
chips [music] get shipped from Taiwan to
the US for inspection. So again, Nvidia
little change this morning after moving
[music] significantly higher. One share
that is moving to the upside is Aries
this morning. This is about the time of
year when we get a reconstitution of the
S&P [music] 500. We learn who's being
added and subtracted. Aries is being
added. So shares up 8.2%. It gets a lot
of passive flows with that new addition.
And Kelanova [music] is being booted out
for the sake of Aries. Just shows the
growth of these private capital players
entering the [music] sphere. Finally,
you mentioned Home Depot giving their
cautious outlook. We also had a cautious
outlook from Toll Brothers. This one's
significant because Toll Brothers is one
of the rare home builders that has
outperformed. It has a more luxury
customer base. [music] Its homes on
average are about $1 million, but its
outlook disappointed the CEO saying that
they're confident, but did so site that
they have softness basically in many
many markets. So shares off by 4 [music]
and a half% in the pre-market. Lisa,
thank you so much. Danny, really notable
given the fact that they tend to be the
most resilient amid sort of a K-shaped
economy. on our radar this morning.
[music] Paramount Sky Dance launching a
stunning hostile takeover for Warner
Brothers Discovery. Paramount's bid of
$30 a share allcash offer comes days
after Netflix agreed to buy Warner
Brothers in a cash and stock deal. Just
under $28 per share. So, not exactly
apples to apples in terms of comparing
the price given the fact that yes, it's
a little bit less than $28 a share, but
it does include some of the properties
that include sort of the news and uh and
sports versus the $30 allcash offer,
>> right? Netflix is just going for the
studio and the catalog. And then what
Paramount wants is everything. They want
to include CNN, TNT, and some of that
that live audience. So, it's a little
bit hard to decipher exactly what deal
it it's difficult cuz it's, as you say,
it's not apples to apples. I think part
of this comes down to how Warner
Brothers decides, do they want to spin
off the news before they sell the
remaining entities or would they rather
sell it as a whole? And it seems like
based off all the reporting, the Wall
Street Journal has a ton of reporting
about this, about the text messages, the
visits to David Sasav's Beverly Hills
house, it does seem like they felt like
they were getting ghosted. That's the
word that the Wall Street Journal used.
Larry Ellison, David Ellison, the
Ellison family felt like they were
getting ghosted and it seems like the
Warner Brothers seauite already decided
they were going to Netflix.
>> Yeah. Well, David Ellison doesn't like
being ghosted and now he's bringing in
some of the big guns when it comes to
the White House and saying, "Look, we're
going to get regulatory approval." It is
all about regulatory approval. The EU
launching a new antitrust investigation
against Google. The probe centering on
the company's alleged favoring its own
AI tools as well as failing to
compensate content creators for
materials used in its AI results. This
might be the key between issues between
the US and Europe. It has to do with
regulating the US tech sphere. How much
is this going to be sort of sticking a
finger in the eye of some US
negotiators?
>> When we saw a similar probe in
September, the president came out. He
said it was discriminatory. Obviously,
there has been a lot of sharp rhetoric
from this administration when it comes
to the European Union, their regulation
of a lot of these tech companies, which
is why the second that Trump won, you
saw all the tech companies going down to
Mara Lago and talking to him about we're
going to need help when it comes to
Europe, whether it's regulation or the
digital services tax, we are just
getting news as well from the EU
commission saying they did give the US
administration about the Google
antitrust probe. They're trying to get
ahead of it, but this is going to be
another big point of friction between
Russ Brussels and Washington.
>> Yeah. Which is an ongoing negotiation.
Meanwhile, talking about negotiations,
President Donald Trump granting Nvidia
permission to ship its H200 AI chip to
China in exchange for a 25% profit cut.
The policy will limit sales to approved
customers and is applicable to other
chip makers, including Intel and AMD.
Joining us now for more is Bloomberg's
Mark Bergen. Mark, thank you so much for
being with us. So, how big of a surprise
was this given that it is a reversal and
it comes over some of the push back from
even people within President Trump's
administration?
>> Yeah, it's a reversal. I mean, it's
definitely something that Jensen Wong,
the CEO of Nvidia, has been arguing for
for a long time, making the argument
here that this restriction basically
gives uh Chinese companies, particularly
Huawei, a big edge. Um, and there are
people, as you mentioned, in the Trump
administration that have argued against
this. There are those that have argued
for this uh using terms like they want
to get China addicted to American chips
and American AI uh something that the US
can have control over.
>> Do we have a sense, Mark, if we sell it,
will they buy? Do we have a sense of
whether China is going to sign off on
some of their big tech companies using
Nvidia chips?
>> I that's a big question. I think an
outstanding one. There was one there's
some reporting in the FT this morning
that Beijing is going to restrict that.
We've seen restrictions on the H20 which
is sort of an earlier version less
powerful version um that has been sold
permission to sold in into China. I I
think that's the ultimate question right
the the concern here uh from Chinese
side is that they also want to build up
their own industry you mentioned Huawei
there's also several other chip
competitors trying to catch up to Nvidia
and one way to do that is to have these
large Chinese tech companies and
startups buying their stuff. Mark, can
you talk to us about actually how this
will work? Because in its exchange for
basically a 25% tariff.
>> Uh yeah, I mean [laughter] I imagine
that's also their response inside Nvidia
right now is I think trying to make
sense of the uh the actual details in
here. The devil's in them of course. Um
I mean the the prior agreement had had a
15% and now we have 25%. I imagine
there's a lot of back and forth. I
imagine there's a lot of lawyers
involved. Um but this is something where
the company has clearly you know China
is a really big market and certainly the
signaling and the messaging from Wong
and the his executives there is it's a
place that they want to be in.
>> So even if they play a 25% ch sir charge
what you're saying is for Nvidia it
still makes sense. What kind of money
and access will they get in China which
with the H200 if to Lisa's point China
gives the green light for firms to to
buy?
>> Uh that's a good question. I mean
there's certainly these are you know
over a year old right now but they are
from our reporting about 10 times more
powerful than the the Nvidia chips that
uh China has access to now. I think
there's an expectation there are a lot
of really you know there's obviously the
the major um AI tech companies with
Alibaba and Tencent and then there's
Deepseek and a wave of these companies
that have kind of come out of nowhere
and developing these models many of them
open source that are as competitive as
those coming out of Silicon Valley. Um,
I think the argument from the hawks in
DC is that you're basically handing them
these incredibly powerful tools to let
China continue to go ahead. Um, I think
it's, you know, there's lots of
questions around the sales channel, but
the big one is, you know, what Beijing
is going to allow.
>> Mark Bergen of Bloomberg, thank you so
much for being with us. There also is a
question, Emory, of just how much
already has gotten out of the bag. The
idea that there have been chips that
already have been smuggled to China.
Anyway, there's a story this morning
about the Justice Department detaining
two individuals for allegedly smuggling
H200 chips out of the United States to
China in the prior year, which really
underpins some of the questions around
deep. So, there's two stories at the
same time. One, the Justice Department
is going after these individuals. At the
same time, the president is
recalibrating his policy on what should
be acceptable to China. It feels like
they are putting economic concerns. They
are putting trade concerns and making
sure they have a good trading
relationship with Xi Jinping ahead of
national security concerns and with
Financial Times I think the biggest
question this morning as you've been
saying will China even allow it and it
does seem like China may allow some of
it but it's not going to be cart blanch
allowance of Nvidia back into China
>> which is the reason why you're not
seeing an even bigger share pop right
given the fact that they did not include
any sales to China in some of their
forecasts I'm talking about Nvidia in
particular Nvidia and AMD seeing the
gains. Intel not so much because they're
not going to be quite as affected. Today
we are getting a host of investor days
and I think it is important to mention
this. We did get Home Depot with a real
tepid outlook for next year. A question
on the revival of the housing market.
CVS also holding its investor day
talking about how his 2026 revenue is
going to be short of some Wall Street
estimates highlighting the concern
around the consumer. I mean, just want
to point to this one more time. uh CVS
coming out and seeing the low end of an
adjusted EPS range from 7 to 720 versus
the estimate of 717. You are seeing a
little pop, but a real question here, a
lack of certainty when it comes to the
state of the consumer at a time where
we're talking about affordability. And
we're talking about really how much
acceleration there is with consumers
that are kind of running out of steam.
We continuously hear this from the
retailers. Yes, they're showing up and
buying, but it's much harder. And what
you hear from a lot of retailers is that
especially when you see the likes, as we
talked about extensively, Dollar
General, Dollar Tree, they're seeing
more consumers come and try to find
deals from the top end. This idea of
choiceful, I know it's like the seauite
word. The Wall Street Journal is using
cranky. Um, it's it's a fickle consumer
right now and they are making these
decisions and looking for bargains,
which paints the picture why people are
really unsure of what 2026 will be. And
I know everyone wants to talk about
these tax rebates. potentially there's
going to be that fiscal impulse, but as
some analysts have said, consumers are
spending that money today when you look
at the Black Friday and Cyber Monday
sales.
>> Yeah. So, right now we're focusing on
just how that's affecting the different
sectors. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your Bloomberg brief with Yahira on.
[music]
Hi, Lisa. President Donald Trump is
warning he could impose new tariffs on
Canadian fertilizer and Indian rice. He
issued the threat at a White House event
where he announced billions of dollars
in assistance [music] for farmers. The
president says the US doesn't need
Canadian fertilizer, but Canada is
America's biggest supplier of potach.
[music] As for rice, India is the
world's biggest exporter, but the US
buys most of its rice [music] from
Thailand. Meanwhile, the US Supreme
Court appears poised to allow President
Trump to fire a leader of the Federal
Trade Commission. The decision that
could limit or overturn a 90-year-old
president that curbs [music] executive
power to dismiss the heads of agencies
that Congress set up to be independent.
Many of the high of the high court's
conservative justices expressing support
for an idea which holds that the
Constitution [music]
gives the president broad authority to
fire officials.
And as you all were just discussing,
Home Depot providing a cautious
preliminary outlook for the next year.
[music] The Home improvement retailer
forecasting comparable sales growth
below analyst estimates, citing the
challenging US housing market. Home
Depot [music] is however ready for a
potential rebound, stating it could see
four to 5% growth in a market recovery
scenario. [music] Edgeburg, Lisa,
>> thank you so much Yahra. Up next, the
Supreme Court weighing President [music]
Trump's tariffs.
We are making a lot of money from
countries that took advantage of us for
years. Our deficits are way down because
of tariffs.
>> The decision of the Supreme Court's a
very important thing.
>> Board of LA Executive Director Gene Soka
joins us next as we do see some trade
fall off, [music] but China really
continuing to be strong. This is Blue
Brook Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> It is all going to be about the Fed
starting today. Heading into tomorrow,
the Fed does meet in Washington DC. the
expectation a 95% [music] chance they
will cut rates probably more interesting
how do they message going forward
especially given the fact that J Powell
is a lame duck [music] Fed chair right
now S&P futures trying to claw out of
yesterday's losses up about a tenth of a
percent you are seeing a bid into bonds
as well after [music] a two basis point
rise yesterday down less than a basis
point 41585
under surveillance this morning the
Supreme Court weighing President Trump's
tariffs
>> we are making a lot of money from
countries that took advantage of us for
years. Our deficits are way down because
of tariffs. And you know, we have a big
decision. Hopefully, we're going to get
the right decision. It's such a big
thing in the Supreme Court right now.
The decision of the Supreme Court's a
very important thing.
>> Here's [music] the latest. President
Trump signaling Canada, India, and
Mexico could get hit with a fresh round
of levies with the Supreme Court
expected to rule on his sweeping global
tariffs before the end of the year. Gene
Seroka, executive director of the Port
of Los Angeles, writing, "If there's
less tariff and trade uncertainty, that
will stabilize the supply chain. We're
all waiting on the Supreme Court ruling
on tariffs." Gene Soka joins us here in
New York. Wonderful to see you. Uh I I
do want to start on just how much of an
impact you already have seen to trade
based on some of the tariff uncertainty
year to date.
>> Oh, it's been an unbelievable roller
coaster of a year. When hard tariff
policy went in, importers slammed on the
brakes. Then when that policy was
softened and deadlines extended, we saw
a real surge in cargo up and down all
year. But we wind up with about our
third best performance on the container
side in our history. Yet exports have
really lagged behind because of
retaliatory tariffs and Asia countries
are normal trading partners cutting
deals with other countries.
>> So you're saying that the US can't kick
its importing habit, but its exports
have suffered as a result of retaliation
more. So, uh, has the importing, uh, mix
changed for the United States in terms
of where the countries are that are
providing some of those imports?
>> It certainly has, Lisa. Starting back in
2018 with the first round of tariffs,
60% of our business was with China.
Today, it's 40% and dropping. Yet, we've
still grown because we've picked up a
lot of trade from Southeast Asia.
>> So, isn't China just using those
countries to then send the goods to
United States? Trans shipment. Emory, I
was in China twice in the last month.
And in the announcement of the 15th
5-year plan by the China Central
Government, they said specifically
they're not just exporting products,
they're now exporting manufacturing
expertise to other countries. They're
investing in Southeast Asia factories
and supply chains. But as far as trans
shshipment goes, the shirt I'm wearing,
the button plackets go from China to
Vietnam to make the full shirt and then
ship it here to New York to the retail
store. So that it's nuanced. It's a
little bit wonky when it comes to our
business, but it's not necessarily trans
shipping to avoid tariffs in one
country.
>> You talked about 2025 being a roller
coaster. What do you expect for 2026?
How much really hinges on what the
Supreme Court decides on AIPA?
>> That's a big deal. But then what
happens? Do we see a refund of all this
money from the Treasury Department? We
know Costco has stepped into the
litigation arena. Only one so far, but
let's see what happens. There are a
couple of other country companies that
they followed in different sectors
outside of traditional big box retail.
If we see a relatively calm future over
the next first two quarters because
maybe some are focused on midterm
elections, that could give some
certainty to the supply chain. Okay, I
know the ground rules. I know the
prices. Let's get back to work instead
of all this simulation and speculation
of what could be. How much does the
uncertainty favor some of the largest
companies over and above some of the
smaller companies that are having a
harder time navigating through it?
>> Uh Lisa, I think there was a distinct
advantage for those who decided to
frontload inventory and try to mitigate
the presumption of tariffs and then when
they actually went in place with all the
ups and downs of different
announcements. More than half of our
125,000 importers at the Port of Los
Angeles are small to middlesize
businesses. They tell me directly in
conversations that they struggle to pass
on those increased costs for fear of not
being able to compete with the larger
companies. Auto parts companies trying
to absorb those costs as they send
product to the big three manufacturing
facilities because the alternative is
potentially shutting down a
manufacturing line which could be 2 to 4
million per hour.
>> So is something else going on? You look
at small business confidence and the
fact that it hasn't recovered to the
same degree that say the stock market
has. Is there something else going on
here that isn't just with respect to a
consumer that's flagging, but that has
to do with an uncompetitive landscape in
a way for uh some of the companies that
don't have the supply chain heft and the
data that some of the largest ones do?
>> You're right. And I'll give you another
example. In Los Angeles, a number of
small companies in our chamber of
commerce led by Maria Selenus tell me
that I buy a lot of small parcels from
Asia, from China specifically to put in
my storefront, to put in my boutique
shop. Now, with the dimmin dimminimous
exemption removed, their prices have
skyrocketed and those folks, family
businesses, are in real trouble when it
comes to keeping inventory at decent
prices. So, you're seeing not so much a
struggling consumer, but a struggling
small business sector.
>> I do. And folks are trying to make ends
meet. They're trying to dance around all
of this policy change as best they can.
They're resilient. They're working hard,
but it's a distinct area of concern for
a lot of small businesses.
>> Do you think it's enough for small
businesses to actually go out of
business, to close shops?
>> Haven't seen that yet, but again, folks
are worried about what they do. You've
got toy importers right now who take
these six weeks before the holidays to
make payroll for all of 26 and
everything that cuts into their margin.
If they're dipping into cash just to pay
for those products because of the
elevated tariffs, that's going to put a
squeeze on a lot
>> ahead of 2026. What kind of frontloading
are you seeing right now?
>> Cargo is moderate. It's not falling off
a cliff. It's not saying the consumer is
going to stop. We've got Lunar New Year
on the 17th of February. So, we'll see a
little bit of a bump before then and
then early springtime for fashion here,
especially in the US. But also for the
month of December, we're anticipating
about 800,000 container units. That's a
really good number, but it's off just a
bit compared to the comps of an elevated
2024.
>> You started by saying that the total
volume of shipments shipments from China
has dropped from 60% back in 2018 to now
40%. And at the same time, yesterday we
read a story saying that China just
crossed the $1 trillion surplus mark
when it comes to total exports. How much
is the United States getting cut out of
the global supply chains right now?
>> Now, two pieces here. Even though
imports from China are down, exports
from China to the rest of the world are
up by doubledigit fashion. They're
finding other customers in Europe,
Africa, and Asia countries. Second,
because our exports have been really
waning this year due to those tariffs
and different countries stepping in like
Argentina and Brazil on soybeans,
Australia with almonds. We're seeing a
really depressed export market and we
only consume about a third of the a
products that we harvest in the United
States balance 2/3s go to renewable
energy and overseas markets. That's not
there. Do you feel like people are
pretty optimistic when you talk to them
that there is going to be some sort of
calibration of some of these policies or
do you feel like there is a sort of gut
check and see change in the mentality of
the businesses that you work with that
have traditionally imported a lot?
>> The want is to get to a more stabilized
environment. The actual on the ground
work is still simulation. If I have to
take another 10 percentage points of my
sourcing from Vietnam, what does that
mean? Do I have the services? Can I get
the product to my regional DC in time
for sales items, fulfillment centers,
etc. So, it's still a lot of extra work
beyond the day-to-day execution of the
supply chain.
>> Gene Srooka, wonderful to see you. Thank
you so much for being with us here in
New York. Port of LA executive director
Gene Seroka here. And talking about
small businesses, we actually got the
small business survey from NFIB earlier
this morning and it came out at 99 uh
from the expected 98.3. So, actually
inlecting a little higher although far
below where it had been. A real question
here though about the disproportionate
influence whether it's a big company
that has more resilience or whether it's
a small company that's having to eat a
lot of the prices. If you're Walmart,
you're a Target, you're able to
stockpile and you're able to really
frontload a lot of this and you have a
lot more flexibility. Also, great point
by Gene, the dimminimus tax. That is
huge because you didn't have to pay a
tax on any of these little trinkets that
were under a certain amount, $800. Now
you are paying that level of tariff and
tax. And for a lot of these small
businesses, the price and the cost of
doing business has just gone up.
>> Yeah. Which is the reason why you're
getting investor days from a lot of
different companies, potentially even
the first investor day in years. And the
clarity you're getting is not much
because they don't have much clarity
either. Uh so the range of estimates is
incredibly wide. We're going to be
continue with that conversation
especially as it becomes a very heavy
deals environment. Coming up next, Sarah
Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods, Esar
Prasad [music] of Cornell University,
and Sam Ze of JP Morgan Private Bank. As
we count ahead to that Fed meeting, that
rate decision largely expected to
[music] end in a rate decrease. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> Markets are looking sort of short-term,
right? They think that there's going to
be another Fed rate cut.
>> There's a question of how much is
appropriate to cut.
>> I probably wouldn't cut at this meeting
this week because inflation is a concern
for me. The Fed rate cut is the right
thing and I think we'll get it.
>> There's so much at stake going forward
with the Fed.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks rangebound as
traders curb their enthusiasm about Fed
rate cuts with US yields rising to the
highest levels in almost three months.
Hollywood drama meets boardroom drama
with Paramount's hostile takeover bid
for Warner Brothers setting the stage
[music] for a new chapter in the media
landscape and Nvidia getting a win as
President Trump signs off on the sales
of H200 [music] chips to China. A real
question about what this entails with a
25% tariff as well as potentially a real
question about the [music] new landscape
for national security. New landscape for
national security because this was seen
as a chip that [music] potentially was
too advanced to go to China. But when
China was given the offer to have the
H20 chip, they told their firms, "Please
shrug them off. We only want the best of
the best." And actually, we also want to
support our national champions. The most
important question, I think, as [music]
you rightfully pointed out earlier,
maybe this is why Nvidia's stock is not
rising as much, is whether or not China
is even going to buy these chips. And
the [music] Financial Times has
reporting this this morning about
Chinese regulators discussing ways to
limit the permits. So, buyers will need
to go [music] through a lengthy approval
process. No final decision has been
made, but it seems like China is going
to be incredibly choosy on what [music]
chips they allow into which firms.
>> Yeah. Which is the reason why I think
people are not bidding up the shares
even more of the likes of Nvidia and
AMD. Meanwhile, when we talk about the
boardroom drama, some of the details
coming out about the financing behind
the Paramount bid for Warner Brothers as
well as Netflix's bid. Netflix's bid is
really interesting. It features a $59
billion line of credit from Wells Fargo,
BNP, and HSBC. for Paramount. Their bid
features money from the Ellison family,
from Qatar, from Saudi Arabia, from Abu
Dhabi, and of course Jared Kushner, the
son-in-law of President Trump. And
actually, this is the second time this
year that [music] we see the PIF, the
Saudi Sovereign Wealth Fund, partner
with Affinity Partners, Jared Kushner's
firm, when it comes to doing a [music]
massive deal. This is why this is
incredibly so interesting. It's not just
who has the better deal for
shareholders. It's what kind of makeup
is the company. [music]
They're different selling different
parts or going after different parts.
When you look at these two deals,
[music] someone want Warner um excuse
me, sorry. Uh Netflix wants the catalog
in [music] the studio. Paramount wants
the whole thing, including the news
division. Which one actually can get
regulatory approval? I think is really
important. The president was asked about
this [music] yesterday. He said, "I have
to see what percentage of market they
have. None of them are particularly
great friends of mine." Which I feel
like Larry Ellison and Jared Kushner
would disagree. Well, [music] either
way, it does highlight how we are seeing
a new era for deals and deal making both
in public and private markets. [music]
A real question of how much the Fed is
going to continue to fuel this with not
only a rate cut tomorrow, but also uh
signaling potentially a slew of
additional rate cuts early next year.
What we are seeing right now in markets
is a lack of real direction trying to
rebound just a touch with the S&P up
about a tenth of a percent. [music] You
do see yields essentially flat at 416 on
the 10-year. The sell-off in long-end
yields across [music] the world has been
notable and has really tempered some of
that risk appetite and really some
knowledge when it comes to uh the
currency markets that dollar weakness
that really has hit pause as well as
crude which really has been hovering
around this crude's been sort of a
boring place right now because
>> [music]
>> ultimately it's a supply demand story
that has more to do with OPEC than it
does the consumer. [music]
Coming up this hour, don't miss this.
Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods as AI
continues leading markets higher. Esar
Prasad of the Brookings Institute as the
White House shifts its stance [music] on
selling Nvidia chips to China and Sam Ze
of JP Morgan Private Bank saying rate
cut bets may be too aggressive. We begin
this hour with stocks holding steady.
Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods sees
AI as a major market driver. Writing we
expect this to continue as we look
forward to 2026 and also expect some
volatility around the ever moving
sentiment on who wins and loses in the
AI sandbox. Sarah joins us now for more.
Sarah, good morning.
>> Good morning. So, let's start with the
moving sandbox that is who is allowed to
sell what to who and this idea of Nvidia
potentially being able to sell H200
chips to China. Is that a a gamecher for
you given the fact that it rearranges
some of our notion of what national
security means?
>> I think there's been so much back and
forth on this and my recollection is
that that the H200 chip was one that was
actually developed specifically to be
exported as opposed to some of the other
chips that were not supposed to be
exported. So I think that there's been a
hugely moving amount of sentiment. I
think that there is an argument to be
made on both sides. One for security and
one also for you want the paradigm to be
the technology that we are exporting as
opposed to letting people develop
technology especially after the Deep
Seek scare and some of the other things
that have gone on in the AI world. I can
understand why that makes some sense.
But there's arguments on both sides and
at the moment you know we'll see how how
much traction that gets if that's when
that's allowed. It's come at a time of
great competition and I think that this
is really important to the broader AI
story. There are competitors which is
why it might be dangerous not to have a
competitive edge and get people addicted
to your chip. How much are we seeing a
gamechanging landscape when it comes
into 2026 with Eddie Ardeni saying every
company is a tech company. Those are
going to be the big winners, not
necessarily the rank and file that have
benefited the most year to date.
>> Excuse me. Well, I think that that's
part of the whole switch that people are
looking for, which is we've been
building out the infrastructure. We knew
the companies that were making the
infrastructure. Now, we're looking for
use cases. What are those use cases?
Who's going to benefit the most by them?
Who's going to end up having this be
margin accretive as opposed to margin
detrimental? And I think that that's
where he's not wrong to say everybody's
a tech company because everyone's
looking at how to incorporate this into
their process and what to use it for,
how to make things better. at the same
time trying to trip over themselves and
say, "But we're not going to fire
everybody because that's also a concern
on the labor side."
>> So, who's doing it right now? Who's
getting ahead of this and actually
implementing AI in a way that you think
it's worth buying some of those
companies or some industries?
>> Well, I think that there's some enormous
potential in places like healthcare.
There are some companies that are
specifically looking to take some of
those wide ranging numbers of candidates
and narrow them down before you get into
the lab so that you have a much better
shot on goal for some of the areas where
people are looking for research on the
on the biotech side. I think you're
finally starting to see the biotech
index pick its head up a little bit
after it's been, you know, the
healthcare side hasn't been doing as
well as some of the other areas. I think
that's a that's a place where the data
and consolidating some of that data can
be very very helpful. But there are
plenty of other places for that too.
Like if you think about things like
insurance and all sorts of things that
use big huge data sets. How can I use
that information to sort of narrow down
what might be the best outcome in a lot
of different things and I think that
there are ways to do that. I mean for us
as well you can get a lot of transcripts
read. You can get a lot of things done
and put it through. You don't
necessarily have to believe everything
it spits out but it definitely gives you
places to start that you didn't it would
took you hours to get to before. How
much do you need to see that story
develop in 2026 potentially to quell any
concerns or the market to quell any
concerns about an AI bubble?
>> I think it's a big deal to have that
happen in 2026. Those use cases become
more and more important because you can
talk about the ubiquity and how we're
going to use things, but the spend has
been enormous and to some degree some of
these companies don't have the revenue
to back up that spend. Some of the
companies are using their balance
sheets, some of them are going to be
taking out debt. This is going to be a
big switch. It's a paradigm shift
between companies that were all cash
generative to companies that are now
using that cash. Companies that were
asset light to all of a sudden having
assets. I mean, you can make that
argument with Netflix and Warner
Brothers as well, right? We were not
that was not an asset firm. So, I think
that there is a lot going on into next
year, which is why I think we're
positive, but I think there may be some
volatility. So, there are some there are
some places where you want to be a
little bit careful. It sounds like you
agree with the Goldman Sachs client
survey that came out on some level where
they started talking about optimism
particularly in the light of some Fed
rate cuts accommodation from both fiscal
and monetary policy makers but also
highlighting high valuations in the AI
trade. So even though they are
optimistic seeing a year- end target of
7,000 to 7,500, not necessarily the
8,100 of John Stotzfist, do you kind of
line up with that the idea of modest
gains that are choppy through the year
with a slight turn when it comes to
leadership? I think we've had such a
change since the financial crisis and we
always look to history and we say, well,
there's going to be a mean reversion or
you can't have this many things happen.
These things don't follow these things.
I think that it's right now the
companies that are continuing to
increase their revenues regardless of
their valuations, people are willing to
pay for it still because they see a real
path for that. I think that as you start
to see things round out, that's going to
help on the earnings front. If you start
to see any kind of degradation in
earnings, I am I would be much less
optimistic. And I think that part of
what people are building on for next
year is some of the things that you
mentioned on the fiscal front, but also
in general, they're looking at an
economy that they think is going to be
doing fairly well. And if there's any
change in that or if you start to see
earnings or margins have a problem, I
think it's a much bigger issue than it
would be at the moment that we see.
>> That's one side of the story. The idea
that the stock market is seeing growth
and optimism. The bond market is seeing
enough weakness for the Fed to be
aggressively cutting. And it seems like
there is a sense of something has to
give here. These two markets are not
trading in tandem. Right now, we're
seeing the bond market uh lose a little
bit of footing with long-end yields
rising. Do you think that they're
sussing out the strength in stocks or do
you think that this is something else
that has to do with a global phenomena
that are really lifting yields?
>> I think the trickiest thing for central
banks is that the global indebtedness
has expanded so much versus where it was
pre-financial crisis that when bond
yields start to move around, it becomes
much trickier to figure out why are they
moving in the direction that they're
moving. And we've seen the decoupling of
yields and stocks on more than one
occasion over the last several years. So
those a lot of those relationships,
historic relationships are not holding
because of a lot of factors that we
can't quite figure out how to take into
account. So it's hard to answer that. I
think the concern is indebtedness. The
concern is we've got a lot of everyone's
got to refinance a lot on the government
side. Forget the private side. And I
think some of that is making it trickier
to figure out exactly from a directional
standpoint which way yields are what
what the yields are telling us. I guess
>> also is it part of it what's going on in
places like Japan? Absolutely. Because
there is something that for years you
had a fairly quiet, fairly consistent
carry trade that everybody was looking
at and everybody was sort of using and
then all of a sudden you see the yields
in Japan go from a very consistent
almost zero to not so to to much higher
and that has been a change and I think
under the surface there's been a lot of
money flow that accompanies that. But
that's also one of those things that
it's one of the many variables it's hard
to look at that specifically and say
this happened because that happened. But
it definitely is part of the concern
about where whether goeth yields, right?
>> What's your highest conviction trade
heading into 2026?
>> We think that there is going to be a
catch- up on small cap. We think that
that some of the areas that have not
benefited as well. You had two years of
under under you had two years of bad
earnings in small cap and everybody kept
saying this is going to be their year.
This is going to be their year. I think
some of that you're lapping such bad
performance that you can see an earnings
jump and people like to see those
earnings jumps. You have to be
profitable. You have to we look at
companies where we want to see the cash
flow. We want to see the ability to
either buy back your own stock which in
small cap is harder. But if you start to
see dividends getting paid, if you start
to see that expansion of cash flow, we
are very balance sheet sensitive right
now. We run a dividend product and a
capital return product. We're very
balance sheet sensitive because there's
a lot going on with cash. Small caps
that we've seen actually really gain
favor over the past couple of weeks.
Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods will
be sticking with us right now. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your blooper brief. The
Hierra Onra. Hi, [music] Lisa. Google is
being investigated by the European Union
over whether it has abused its dominance
[music] by using its own AI tools to
squeeze out competition. The commission
saying it will look at whether the firm
has [music] distorted competition by
imposing unfair terms on content
creators and giving its own AI model an
advantage over [music] its rivals.
Meanwhile, two men are being detained by
the DOJ for allegedly attempting to
smuggle at least $160 [music]
million worth of Nvidia AI chips to
China. The department alleges the men
operated a network that replaced Nvidia
labels from [music] H100 and H200 AI
chips with the fictional San brand
before shipping them. [music] A third
suspect has already pleaded guilty. And
Jimmy Kimmel is back for at least one
more year under a new deal [music] with
ABC. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that Jimmy Kimmel Live will
continue until at least May 2027. We're
told the host and [music] Disney agreed
on an extension months ago, but delayed
announcing their plans out of respect
for axed fellow late night host Steven
Coar. That's from [music] Brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Yahara. Up next,
Paramount versus Netflix.
>> I know the companies very well. I know
what they're doing. We have to see the
Netflix percentage of mark at Paramont
the percentage of market. I mean none of
them are particularly great friends of
mine.
>> Even [music] his son-in-law we'll talk
about that. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> really trying to get that Santa Claus
rally underway. Yesterday we snapped it.
We snapped that positive mood. Four days
of streak [music] winning streak that
did come to an end today. Just a little
tepid lift to futures as the session
grows older. Meanwhile, in the yield
space, watch this because this has been
really driving a lot of the risk
sentiment. Yields up yet again in the
10-year, 4.17% [music]
when you round it up as you see yields
climb to some of the highest levels that
we've seen since the end of September.
[music] A real question about the state
of the economy given that we are
operating somewhat in a fog. Today we do
get the Jolts [music] job openings data
as well as the quits rate. That to me is
going to be very key. Tomorrow we get
ECI the employment component index index
the [music] employment cost index as
well as of course that Fed rate decision
and Jerome Powell coming out with his
statement [music] with some sort of
forecasts claims on Thursday before that
Oracle a real question here about
whether people are getting an accurate
[music] read right now in the economy
it's going to be a huge question because
as Andrew Hollenhor just published
preparing for a few months [music] of
weird data we're not even going to get
October November PPI data until January
of a new year which which is why today
and tomorrow's Fed meeting [music] is so
important likely they're going to cut.
But what do they signal for 2026 given
the [music] fact that the data is just
frankly weird given the government
shutdown?
>> Yeah. How do they see the inflationary
pressures versus some of the [music] job
losses that we have seen? Meanwhile in
the deal space all eyes on the boardroom
drama under surveillance this morning
paramount versus Netflix.
>> I know the companies very well. I know
what they're doing but I have to see I
have to see what percentage of market
they have. We have to see the Netflix
percentage of mark at Paramount the
percentage of market. I mean, none of
them are particularly great friends of
mine. You know, I just I want to I want
to do what's right.
>> Here's the latest. Paramount Sky Dance
launching a hostile takeover bid for
Warner Brothers at $30 a share in cash,
valuing the company at more than $108
billion. That offer coming just days
after Warner Brothers agreed to a deal
with Netflix. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for more. Tyler, how much
does the White House really hold the
keys to who wins this deal?
>> Yeah, hey Lisa. Well, each deal's
potential to pass regulatory clearance
here in Washington. And with the Trump
administration is going to be a big
factor as President Trump himself has
said that he will be directly involved
in any decision. But as you just heard,
President also maintained yesterday that
he's not close with either company,
Netflix or Paramount. Despite, of
course, Paramount's bid being championed
by the Ellison family, which of course
has close ties to this White House and
includes equity backers like the
president's son-in-law Jared Kushner's
private equity firm. President did
maintain yesterday that he has not
spoken to Kushner about the proposal.
Now, Paramount's bid is notable not just
of course for the proximity of the
players to the White House, but also
just the scope that we're talking about
here. It includes sovereign wealth funds
from Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Now, our
reporting indicates Paramount has really
been lobbying officials here in
Washington. There was reporting that the
CEO, David Ellison, did meet face tof
face with President Trump at the Kennedy
Center honors over the weekend as they
try to pitch investors that they have
the clearer clearer path when it comes
to passing regulatory muster. And
they're arguing, of course, that Netflix
would harm competition when they're
talking to officials. But Lisa, we can't
forget that it was a Bloomberg News
scoop that that Netflix CEO Ted Sandos
met with President Trump in recent weeks
at the White House where he made the
case that Netflix competition isn't only
in the streaming space. I will point out
that at the time people familiar tell us
that Sarandos left that meeting with the
feeling that he wouldn't face immediate
opposition from the White House.
>> Tyler, one of these bids includes the
news division. One of them doesn't. I'm
wondering whether the news division,
potentially a tie-up between Warner
Brothers, ABC, and CBS, the question of
David Ellison winning this versus
Netflix, whether that could potentially
be a problem for the president given
some of his push back on the media
landscape.
>> Right. Exactly. And you heard Lisa in
that move uh in that clip that you
played, President Trump talking about
how the media has been portraying this,
often saying that he himself is going to
take a look at the at the players and at
the factors here. But particularly when
we're seeing this reporting around what
could happen to the future of CNN and
how Paramont could uh address that since
we know that it's a top concern for
President Trump, that really might play
into the picture here. But at the end of
the day, we have to keep in mind that of
course whatever happens here, there's
going to be that regulatory scrutiny.
Typically, we are expecting that this is
going to fall to the Department of
Justice. They're the ones that typically
oversee media mergers and that could
take anywhere from a 10 months uh for an
investigation to wrap and then
ultimately decide whether or not to
pursue to sue to block a deal. So, there
is so many factors here that we have to
weigh and it's going to take a while to
shake out.
>> Tyler Kendra of Bloomberg, thank you so
much for that. Sarah Hunt of Alpine
Saxon Woods is still with us. Sarah, I
am curious about the backdrop for this
debt markets wide open, happy to finance
it. Banks willing to put up a $59
billion bridge loan, one of the biggest
ever. As Netflix does go forward in this
deal, does the mood of markets seem to
be shifting to a very different kind of
LBO 2006 2007 kind of feel versus where
they were to start 2025? I think there's
definitely been a pickup in in mergers
and acquisitions and I think that to
some extent the fact that the IPO market
has been so quiet is one of the things
that's got everybody jumping on M&A as
opposed to some of the other aspects of
capital markets on the equity side. So I
think there's definitely between the
fact that there is plenty of money
looking for a home and plenty of people
looking for transactions. I think that
you've definitely seen a step up in the
last several months. What does it say
that this is not a one-off that this is
now becoming a fight when it comes
specifically about the assets for Warner
Brothers?
>> Well, I think I mean you've had an inter
you've had a a an industry that has been
so disintermediated by the internet and
you have I mean even thinking about the
news division, right? You how many news
channels did there become over a period
of time? How much of an audience does
everybody have anymore? It's not the way
we were. We still think of it. I mean
certainly those of us of a certain age
of a three, you know, a major three
networks and everything else. But it's
been a very different situation and
between that and what has happened with
streaming and taking things out of the
theater, I think there's a lot of
different issues to play with on the
regulatory front and I don't you know
it's going to be tough to make all those
decisions but I think that you have some
real issues potentially with both of
these.
>> What does it say about Netflix
shareholders given where the stock price
is? It doesn't seem that they like this
idea and this idea of bringing on more
assets to your point earlier that these
were companies in the tech space that
were cash heavy asset light. I think
that that is one of the head scratchers
about the change in in strategy from a
from an outside perspective looking in
and saying look you've got this
fantastic streaming service if you're
Netflix you've got an enormous amount
you're generating an enormous amount of
cash which for several years they
weren't right so they were they were
penalized when they weren't generating
cash and they were paying all this money
for content because people were trying
to figure out how that was going to work
well they've got that to work very well
and now all of a sudden this is a change
again and I'm not sure how people are
going to feel about that I think that's
one of the things that we have as a
concern for next year, which is the
returns on the cash that most of these
companies have been getting for a long
time has been fantastic. They're now
putting it in a bunch of assets that may
not have the same return profile. That
is a paradigm shift that that the market
is going to have to come to grips with,
especially given the valuations.
>> Would you rather invest on the debt side
or on the equity side given the fact
that there is this change?
>> It's an interesting question. I mean,
we're mostly equity people. We do some
fixed income work, but we're mostly
equity people. I think that depending on
how levered you are, yes, I'd want to be
looking at the debt versus the equity,
but I think that right now, I mean, what
this would do to to Netflix isn't
driving it into crazy levered territory.
And it looks like what they're trying to
do with Paramount Skyance is is raise
more equity than debt because that's
already an indebted situation. So, it
depends a little bit on what the entire
capital structure looks like and what
you think the cash flows are going to be
after that. You know, there is there
there are arguments for both, but it
sort of depends on what you're looking
for. Apollo's Jim Zelter was on earlier
just the past couple of weeks and he
said people are expecting disruption in
business models but aren't pricing in
how exponential some of the revaluations
can be that things can go to zero right
I'm thinking of Xerox I'm thinking of uh
Kodak I'm thinking of other companies
that just overnight become obsolete you
see for example a real question
existential question around some of the
movie theater operators right in the
wake of a potential shifting in business
model how do you avoid those potholes of
potential businesses that suddenly
overnight just become worth nothing.
>> Well, I think that this is one of the
the reasons that we like to follow
things like cash flow as opposed to just
earnings because you start to see
companies not be able to generate cash
as things start to get worse. They may
be putting up earnings for a variety of
different reasons, but you want to look
at that and make sure that you really
are still seeing a business model that
is viable regardless of what is going
on. I think this goes to the networks.
Again, this is one of those issues where
you had these big cash generative
networks and then all of a sudden they
paid up these massive amounts of money
for sports and everything else and then
you're wondering like is the advertising
really coming in strongly enough to
support all of that and I'm not sure the
answer to that is yes and I think that
if you follow that trajectory that gives
you some insight into insight into
what's going on in the future. Sarah
Hunt, thank you so much for being with
us. Sarah Hunt of Alpine Saxon Woods.
So, you don't believe, Emory, that this
actually is someone, President Trump,
who has not talked to his son-in-law or
potentially even uh one of his best
friends? Well, he's talking to everyone
involved. And your question to Tyler
about what it means for the news
division. Wall Street Journal overnight
had this story about how um there was a
December meeting. David Ellison offered
assurances to Trump about changes at
CNN. This is according to the Wall
Street Journal reporting and it said
Trump has told people close to him that
he wants new ownership of CNN as well as
changes CNN programming that can also
cast a cloud of a ton of controversy
around this deal if Paramont ends up
winning over in the bidding war. This
deal is going to be full of controversy.
Also, the idea of US banks versus Middle
East money, a whole host of other
questions that we'll continue to [music]
be asking. Coming up next, we'll be
talking about Nvidia. Esar Prasad of the
Brookings Institute as the White House
reverses its stance on selling Nvidia
chips to China. Plus, Danny Burgerer
with your morning movers. Autozone
shares falling as first quarter comp
sales missed estimates. From New York,
this is Bloomberg [music] Surveillance.
[music]
The big question for today is can bond
markets sustain some sort of rally after
[music] two straight days of losses with
yields rising to the highest levels
going back to September. Take a look at
the stock market. You are seeing really
rangebound hovering between gains and
losses with the S&P [music] futures up
about a tenth of a percent. It really
does hinge on Tuesday's tens and 30s.
Whether we do see any kind of bid
earlier this morning we did see a bid
into the long end. We continue to see
that um just marginally after that
two-day sell-off that really [music] did
send yields mar much higher. Two-year
yields getting uh a little bit higher as
well as people pull back some of the
expectations. This is heading into that
2-day meeting [music] with the Federal
Reserve where they're widely expected to
cut rates. Key question, how much can
they possibly cut next year [music]
given the fact that everyone's expecting
a rebound in the US consumer? Two hours
away from the cash [music] open. Here
are your morning movers with Danny
Burgerer. Danny,
>> hey Lisa. Earlier this morning, we got
an update from CVS at their investor day
and it is one where their earnings
outlook that beat expectations. Their
revenue didn't, [music] but I guess the
earnings was enough to lift things
higher. They also gave outlooks through
2028. Their plan vital knowledge
analysts say that it does imply that
their expectations are ahead of the
streets. They [music] also talked about
a new consumer platform that was of
course AI enabled. Shares up just under
3% [music] this morning. Elsewhere, I
talked about this yesterday. Core Weef
issuing more debt in the form of
convertible bonds. It was $2 billion.
Their shares fell 2.3% [music] after
that news this morning. They announced
that they're actually upping the size.
It's going to be 2 and a4 billion. So,
it's the same reaction as yesterday.
Shares fall this morning by 1.6% in the
pre-market. Finally, we got some
earnings from AutoZone just moments ago.
Those earnings also missing
expectations. It's again this concern
about the consumer [music] big ticket
purchases. So, what does that mean for
different parts and supplies for their
cars? The CEO also talked about the fact
they're going [music] to aggressively
open stores. They're hoping to capture
more of the market share. Those shares
down about 1.7%. Lisa, thank you so much
Danny. Just picking up on what you
talked about, Danny, with Cororeweave.
[music] Really interesting to see
Cororeweave continuing that slide. This
convertible share sale is really
highlighting how much convertible bond
sale is highlighting how much they need
to [music] raise money to finance some
of what they're doing for Open AI.
Again, this all comes back to Sam Alman
and his shadow over this market.
>> Well, this is why people are [music]
concerned about an AI bubble because the
circular transactions between these
companies, it's why [music] you have
basically the plug of an outlet into an
outlet bank. It is just absolutely
circular. And until they start showing
more profit and showing [music] that
actually how AI is working not just the
basics of what we have now with chat
[music] GPT but across sectors um this
is going to be a huge story for6.
>> A real question here about dilution. The
financing [music] further strengthens
Corore Wave's balance sheet while
lowering its cost of capital as the
company scales its AI cloud platform to
[music] meet unprecedented demand. We'll
pick up on that in a bit. On our radar
this morning, Paramount launching a
hostile takeover bid for Warner Brothers
Discovery. The bid is being supported by
a more than $40 billion equity
commitment from investors, including
Saudi Arabia's public investment fund
and Jared Kushner's Affinity Partners.
Watch this space in terms of which poses
a bigger conflict of interest.
Potentially a bridge loan from some of
the banks or potentially a cohort that
includes President Trump's son-in-law
and some of the Middle Eastern allies.
This is going to be incredibly
complicated. Uh Warner Brothers has 10
days. December 22nd they have to give at
this the final date to Paramont. And
then Netflix will have four days. So
this could drag on. It's definitely
going to drag on into 2026. But the
biggest question right now is not just
who has a better deal and for what
assets. It's who can actually get
regulatory approval. For Netflix, a huge
question is going to be about market
share when it comes to streaming. And
then for Paramont, I think a big
question is going to be about all these
characters are are involve involved. You
have three sovereign wealth funds out of
the United States. Also, Affinity
Partners, which is the private equity
firm of the president of United States
son-in-law. Meanwhile, in the other
geopolitical news, President Trump
threatening an additional 5% tariff on
Mexico over a water dispute. The
president also warning of new levies on
Canadian fertilizer and Indian rice. The
move's coming as the Supreme Court
considers the legality of the
president's sweeping global tariffs and
President Trump saying in a recent
political interview that he's interested
in possibly lowering tariffs in order
for cost of living concerns. We will get
into that as well. President Trump,
meanwhile, granting Nvidia permission to
sell its H200 chips to China in exchange
for a 25% sir charge. The decision
allowing Nvidia to potentially regain
business from a key global market and is
considered to win a win in its efforts
to curb export control. Bloomberg's
Mandy Singh joins us now for more.
Mandep, how unexpected was this given
the fact that Nvidia wrote off any sales
to China in its latest earnings release?
I mean uh look I think we've been going
back and forth uh in terms of Nvidia's
ability to sell uh to Chinese customers
and in this case I think this is a newer
sort of variation of that H20 that they
were allowed to sell to sell in the
region in the past and uh uh it's not
the latest blackwell chip. So from that
perspective clearly uh you know they are
still managing to sell an older version
of the chip but the Chinese market as
Jensen has highlighted is huge. I mean
he himself has said it's a $50 billion
opportunity and just to put it in
context we're like the hyperscalers will
make up almost 160 billion in revenue
for Nvidia next year uh when they will
be over a $300 billion base. So there
are thick the three big hyperscalers in
the China's region and so if they're
able to sell up to $50 billion that will
be huge in terms of what it means for
Nvidia's topline growth and that's why
they are keen to you know sell anything
they can when it comes to the China
market. When it comes to the share price
this morning though, isn't it reacting
to the fact that they don't think
they're going to be able to sell that
much? And the Financial Times this
morning talking about buyers are going
to need to go through a lengthy approval
process showing why they can't use
homegrown championships and they have to
use Nvidia.
>> Yeah. Look, and that's where the back
and forth uh that has been there in the
past when they were able to sell S20s
and then they had to completely, you
know, uh take it out of their guide. uh
there is that uh you know security
aspect that continues to come into play
in terms of uh what is are the Chinese
LLMs currently using what are they
training their models on and so uh it's
not a done deal but from an Nvidia
perspective I mean there is no doubt
that it will be a positive if they are
able to sell to the Chinese market
because they have to find big
hyperscalers as new customers they
already have all the ones outside of
China uh the question is uh you know
that's where all the LLM companies are
uh in in China and they want to be able
to sell to them. So it'll be interesting
to see if they're able to follow through
and you know sell in scale which is what
they want to do.
>> Mandep Singh of Bloomberg thank you so
much for being with us turning to the
trade war between the US and China.
China's top leaders signaling they are
on alert for a potential flare up as
they draw up economic plans for next
year. Joining us now to discuss, Esar
Prasad, senior fellow at the Brookings
Institute. Uh, Esar, thank you so much
for being with us. I want to start with
the trade war in the context of this
recent move by the United States for
Nvidia to be allowed to sell its H200
chips into China. Do we have a sense of
where buying those chips fits into
China's plans as they try to turn more
inward and rely on domestic champions?
So we are looking at competition in one
area which is going to be the most
intense between the US and China which
is technology. The Chinese government
has been very keen on upgrading its
manufacturing sector moving up the value
added chain and trying to dominate the
high technology sectors you know solar
panels electric vehicles and now AI. For
the US it's a very dicey strategy right
now. On the one hand, you don't want to
lose access to the Chinese market or
deny China some of these chips because
that means that it gives China much more
of an incentive to move forward with its
domestic innovation strategy. But at the
same time, providing these tips to China
does make it a lot easier for them to
move forward in terms of that
innovation. And of course, um the Trump
team seems to be betting that uh um this
is going to help Nvidia gain significant
market share there. Whether that's going
to be a durable increase in market
share, whether Nvidia can hold on um
when China competes with all the state
resources behind it, I think is a key
question. But in the short term,
Nvidia's revenues are certainly going to
take a big uh um positive bounce and
there are going to be some revenues
coming in for the US government, but I'm
not quite sure that this is going to
serve the long-term US national security
or economic interests very well. Es I'm
wondering the belt and road the digital
belt and road that we've heard Jensen
Juan talk about that China would create
a system of dependence on some of its
technologies and goods in Southeast
Asia. How far has China gotten in
creating that type of ecosystem where
domestic economies nearby really rely on
China both technologically as well as
beyond that.
So in terms of trade and finance, China
has certainly made a lot of progress
through the belton road and other
initiatives and technology is what
they're coming from. At the moment, I
think there is still a sense that China
is able to not innovate fundamentally
but take existing innovations, many of
which come out of the US and
commercialize them and scale them up in
a way um that is uh you know clearly uh
worldbeating and that is the advantage
that is certainly very relevant in terms
of increasing um the scope of its
technological um you know influence
within Asia and that is happening. It is
happening a little slowly and the fact
that the US is somewhat receding from
the region and many countries in the
region feel that they cannot disengage
from China because they don't have an
alternative trustworthy partner is
certainly helping China in this process.
>> As when it comes to China its
relationship with Europe especially now
given Emanuel Mrom was just there. He's
talking about how it's unstable. Do you
see China going to have to not just dump
more in Europe, but try have to invest
more in Europe because the walls have
gone up? It's been so complicated with
the United States.
the walls are going up for Chinese
exports and they're going to go up more
because the reality is that China is now
a very very unbalanced um growth model
with most of the growth coming from the
supply side of the economy which in
normal times is not a bad thing but
domestic demand is not keeping up and
with every passing day every passing
quarter there is more capacity in China
that needs to be exported. The US has
put up walls um at least to direct
Chinese exports to the US. No, Europe
and other countries that need exports
themselves to bolster their economies
are going to face the brunt and China is
very cognizant of this issue. It's
reliance on exports to power its own
growth but also the fact that walls are
going up to its exports around the
world. So it is trying to befriend these
countries by essentially investing in
those countries and this again poses an
existential risk in my view for some of
the companies in these countries
especially in the high technology
sectors because they could get swallowed
up by these Chinese investments and
essentially become find it very
difficult to compete against Chinese
firms operating on their own soil. But
that's the direction the Chinese are
taking and at the moment very few
countries are able to resist. A lot of
times the United States will say that
they are pushing other countries to do
this to com not exactly combat but have
this competition with China. But what
kind of message is the US sending at the
same time when they're basically showing
that they want to put trade and economic
concerns higher than national security
concerns with President Trump allowing
Nvidia to sell the H200 into Beijing?
>> Yes. Some of the policy makers I've
spoken to, you do um point to what they
see as US hypocrisy uh in the sense of
trying to put up u um barriers to
Chinese um uh imports, trying to limit
exports and trying to get them uh there
is other countries to do the same while
at the same time the US seems very very
willing uh to trade off many issues that
the US claims should be very important
including national security
considerations um for short-term
economic gain. and this Nvidia decision
is a prime example of that. So certainly
the message that the rest of the world
is hearing from the US is one of great
inconsistency and some degree of short-
termism rather than really viewing um
the long-term economic and um national
security of the interests as being the
prime drivers of US policy. Es, over the
past couple of years, you and I have
talked about a real question of how much
the US will lose some of its dominance
globally as a result of some of these
shifts and concerns that you talk about.
We haven't really seen it. You have seen
some sell-offs arbitrarily in the dollar
sort of momentarily, not arbitrarily,
and a real bid up in the price of gold,
but have you seen a sustained shift away
from the US financial system by some of
the trade partners of the ER?
>> In short, no. Uh I think the reality is
that the US remains the dominant economy
and dominant financial market in the
world in terms of final consumption
demand. It's still the most important
and relatively speaking in terms of its
financial mark market depth, size and uh
its institutional framework um which is
certainly being eroded as we speak. But
overall this package is going to be very
difficult for any country to um to beat.
And despite all the concerns about US
government debt, about the US
institutional framework including the
central bank independence and so on,
what we have seen is foreign investors
have continued to buy significant
amounts of US treasuries and other US
financial assets and this includes
foreign central banks. Certainly foreign
central banks and everybody around the
world is trying to diversify away from
the dollar. They're doing so at the
margin, but really there isn't much of
an alternative to the US and we see that
in investor behavior very clearly.
>> Esar Prasad of the Brookings
Institution, thank you so much for being
with us this morning. Wonderful insight
just as Esar is talking. JP Morgan puts
this outlook out. They say they expect
emerging market equities to outperform
developed market in 2026. So maybe not
shifting away from the US but bright
spots elsewhere as well. Especially when
you look at places in Asia, especially
China, when it comes to the fact that
just this week they basically had a
former Nvidia executive launch, an AI
company, they are putting everything
they can into these homegrown champions.
>> Yeah. Talking about how a second year of
outperformance from emerging markets
comes after years and years of
underperformance. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your bl brief with
Yahira Anand. Yahira.
>> Hi, Lisa. We're seeing CVS shares rising
3% [music]
in the pre-market. The healthcare
company raised its fullear profit
forecast and said earnings would rise in
2026. [music]
It's a sign of hope as it navigates a
turbulent retail environment. Plus,
government scrutiny across the
healthcare industry [music] from
vaccines to insurance. Meanwhile,
Michael Bur says he holds sizable
positions in Fanny [music] May and
Freddy Mack common stock and believes a
relisting is quote nearly upon us.
[music] Bur became bullish on the
companies after President Trump's
election and says regulators must ease
capital requirements and scale back the
[music] government's claim on the
companies for an IPO to occur. And the
Los Angeles Chargers continued their
push for the playoffs after defeating
the Philadelphia Eagles to wrap up week
14 of the NFL season. [music]
Eagles quarterback Jaylen Herz struggled
committing five turnovers including a
game- ending interception [music] as the
Eagles dropped their third straight
game. That should be McGreed. Lisa,
thank you so much. Yhierra up next,
preparing for the Fed's decision.
>> I wouldn't be surprised if we see three
cuts. So, starting probably this week
with the first and then two more into
next year. The US is a bit in a weaker
spot. [music]
>> Sam Ze of JP Morgan Private Bank joins
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Right now we're looking at markets
looking ahead to the Fed meeting and a
question of just how much the Fed will
signal they are [music] going to cut
next year. A bit of an optimistic tone
in equity futures. Bonds just re
fluctuating here after a couple days of
a sell-off that left yields at the
highest levels going back to September
[music] under surveillance this morning
preparing for the Fed's decision.
>> I wouldn't be surprised if we see three
cuts. So starting uh probably this week
was the [music] first and then two more
into next year if you look at a 12 month
time horizon. I think that could be
justified because although there is
fiscal spending yes and increasing but
uh I would say at this point in time the
US is a bit in a weaker spot inflation
remains a topic so we don't see
inflation to substantially come down
>> here's the latest markets eyeing the
Fed's dot plot as a divided central bank
is expected to cut interest rates by a
quarter point tomorrow Sam Ze of JP
Morgan private bank writing markets may
be too aggressive in pricing the number
of cuts we anticipate the Federal
Reserve will continue lowering interest
rates rates with a total of 50 basis
point cuts uh by the end of 2026 which
seems to be consensus right now. Sam uh
joins us now. Thank you so much for
being here. I want to just start with
what we've seen over the past couple of
weeks in bond yields particularly on the
longer end. Why do you think there has
been such a huge increase over the past
couple of weeks?
>> Absolutely. I mean it really does seem
like it started after Halloween after
the Fed's meeting. So, I think there's a
two-pronged thing that's happened here,
where one, the Fed did become a little
bit more hawkish after its last meeting,
signaling that the bar to further cuts
was going to be higher, and we can talk
about how that looks in 2026. And the
other is that global sovereign bond
yields are highly correlated, and we've
seen sell-offs, not only in Japan, but
also in the UK around the budget. And
so, I think that's really been kind of
infecting the the long end of the US
bond market. At the same time,
>> is this bond vigilante coming back and
saying deficits are too high, or is this
an issue of true inflation that people
see as being persistent and sticky
around the world?
>> I think it's an acknowledgement that
central banks are getting to the end of
their cutting cycles. The Fed might be
the last one to get there, but if you
look at basically money market curves
across most developed market economies
outside maybe the US and the UK, they're
all upward sloping now. All these
central banks have normalized rates.
They're all near neutral. And the market
is basically saying, look, there's no
moves coming soon, but if there is going
to be another move because growth looks
okay going into 2026, it's probably
higher, not lower. And that's what we're
seeing reflected in these curves.
>> It seems like markets have kind of come
along with what you believe for next
year. [clears throat] Have we fully
priced in the scenario that we'll only
cut by by 50 basis points in 2026 based
on the yield move that we've seen over
the past couple of weeks?
>> I'd say that they're still a little bit
more priced uh than we're expecting. I
see the terminal rate priced at a little
closer to 3%. We think that they really
only get down to three and a quarter to
three and a half. Not massive
differences, but a bit. It's really
about the labor market, right? The US
labor market is soft right now,
relatively weak, you might even say. Our
view is that as you move through 2026,
it looks stable, resilient, even
improves as it goes along. And that's
what's going to determine the Fed
cutting path. I think that's what we're
going to hear from them this week, that,
hey, they're going to cut this week.
From here, it's going to take further
weakness in the labor market to get them
to move a lot more. And that's not
something we expect. That's something
that investors have to really make a big
call on for 2026.
>> How do you think about all of this
playing out to the fact that we are
going to have it changing at the guard
at the Federal Reserve and Jay Powell is
a lame doc and everyone's just waiting
for the next Trump nominee.
>> Yeah, I'd make two observations about
it. One, and we have to remember this is
a committee. So, a new chair can come in
and they could be hawkish or dovish, but
in general, they've got to convince the
entire committee how to move. And if you
look at everyone across the committee,
we can read all of their speeches,
they're all pretty academic. They're all
pretty much just interpreting the data.
And I'd also make the observation that
that seems to be how the market is
interpreting this. There aren't huge
changes in market pricing for before May
and after May when PAL is supposed to
go. Uh and there aren't huge changes.
You know, a terminal rate priced into
the market around 3% is I think very
consistent, maybe a little bit more
dovish than our economic expectations,
but very consistent with overall
consensus economic expectations. If
there was some huge pricing in the
market about concerns about how the Fed
outlook was going to evolve, you'd
expect that to be much more dovish than
anyone's kind of central economic
scenario. And I would argue that's not
the case. Really, it's all about the
labor market and the growth outlook.
>> Why do you think then bond investors
told Treasury they were concerned about
a Kevin Hasset chairman? Well, I've
looked at betting market odds and that's
how we've done it, which basically we've
looked on days where betting market odds
have shifted in terms of who it's likely
the next chair is going to be and then
looked at market reactions around those
changing betting market odds. And we
don't see a huge relationship between
that in any direction. And so I would
really argue that it's really about how
the economic outlook evolves. And we can
talk about all of these things all day
long, but when we look at what's driving
market pricing across the curve across
FX markets, across markets in general,
we think it's the economic fundamentals.
>> If you think the Fed is not going to cut
as much next year as people expect, do
you expect dollar strengthening, not
dollar weakening as so many people seem
to believe?
>> Yeah, we really don't. Maybe that's
where we're out of consensus. We really
don't see the dollar set up for the same
type of year as it had in 2026.
the the real driver for the dollar's
weakness in 2025 has been that economic
convergence between the US and the rest
of the world. Growth convergence,
interest rate convergence. And in 2026,
as the labor market stabilizes, we just
don't think you're going to get any more
of that economic convergence really. So
unless the economy ends up much weaker
than we expect, we think the dollar is
the dollar is at least stable and that's
how we're investing around a stable
dollar. um and the risk so that if the
economy accelerates more than we expect,
you could absolutely get a stronger
dollar.
>> Sam Ze, thank you so much for being
here. Really appreciate it. Sam Ze of JP
Morgan Private Bank as the market does
expect, yes, a 95% chance that the Fed
will cut tomorrow, but heading into
2026, the likelihood that there will
only be two rate cuts. That's down from
three just a couple of weeks ago. And
potentially hearing from him, you just
have to ignore all the noise coming out
of Washington. It all comes down to
economic conditions and the labor
market, which is why actually next
week's non-farm payrolls are going to be
so important because they're coming
after the Fed meets and we're going to
get some real clear-cut data on what is
going on in this labor market.
>> Yeah, nothing's really uh been too
clear-cut. We did get some NFIB small
business optimism that did come in uh
just a touch higher earlier this
morning. We do get job openings and the
quits rate coming out at 10 a.m.
Eastern. Coming up, we get Michelle
Weaver of Morgan Stanley joining us here
in studio. Bloomberg's Jennifer Ree and
Jonathan Pingle of UBS. As we look ahead
to that Fed decision, as we look ahead
to boardroom drama with the media space
very much front and focused, and as we
look forward to the AI trade as so many
people discuss the bubble word and
whether we've overused it heading into
2026, this is Bloomberg [music]
Surveillance.
Well, that's [music]
[music]
[music] the direction of travel. Things
look great right now.
>> We're entering this phase of AI
application.
>> AI is not a bubble. I think is still a
boom and a structural change and that's
why we are constructive for next year.
>> AI is certainly going to change the
world. But who are going to be the
winners in that?
>> You can look at either side of the coin
on so much of the data that's out here
and you could either be bullish or
bearish.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Kicking off a Fed meeting
with [music] high expectations for rate
cuts with focus now turning to the state
of the economy. Some jobs data on deck
with Jolts [music] later this morning.
Meanwhile, new details emerging in the
boardroom battle between Netflix and
Paramount as they wage war over the
purchase of Warner Brothers Discovery.
And a question about big tech as
President Trump opens the door to
high-tech chip sales to China. The
national security concerns [music]
going from access to potentially losing
out in the race. And China has
responded. Basically, according to
Financial Times, they're going to look
piece by piece deciding maybe which
firms [music] can get access to this
chip. And does it even matter because
China might shrug it off even if they're
allowed to buy these H200s [music]
like they did with the H20. But I think
the signal is clear. The Trump
administration is putting trade and
economic concerns over national security
concerns [music]
which in this sector is definitely a
pivot and right now people are looking
to the artificial intelligence melt up
that really drove 2025 potentially
changing in 2026. We saw that in the
[music] Goldman Sachs survey. We saw
that from Eddie Ardeni coming out and
saying that he does see a potential
underweighting of big tech [music] as
warranted as everyone is a tech company
and that really is what we heard from
Sarah Hunt earlier this morning and the
outperformance that we've seen of late
in the [music] Russell 2000 and she's
talking about how all these tech
companies had a lot of capital and now
they have a lot of assets and they have
a lot to show for [music] when it comes
in 2026 what everyone continuously says
to us they want to see that broadening
out in AI not where the use cases are
and which industries are [music]
actually adapting and if they don't see
the use cases and the adaptation of AI.
Then what is all this money for? [music]
Another key thing for 2026 is going to
be the gap between the electricity need
and energy needed for these data
centers. [music] And if this mismatch,
can that narrow? And right now, people
are looking at what the f what the
Federal Reserve's response is going to
be [music] to all of these dynamics.
That meeting in Washington DC kicking
off. It will end tomorrow with a press
conference with Jerome Powell.
Meanwhile, in markets right now, really
[music] quiet, rangebound ahead of that
decision, ahead of a slew of deals that
we talked about earlier with Warner
Brothers being bid up by both Netflix
[music] and Paramount yields. Watch this
space. We saw a huge rise in tenure
yields over the past two weeks. Right
now, near the highest levels going back
to the end of September. Do we maintain
that type of level [music] after
tomorrow's Fed Me day meeting given the
fact that the market right now is still
expecting at least two rate cuts next
year? Coming up today, we have the Jolt
jobs opening data [music] as well as of
course the data tomorrow of the
employment cost index ahead of that Fed
meeting. Coming up this hour, Michelle
Weaver of Morgan Stanley with stocks
searching for gains. Jennifer Ree of
Bloomberg Intelligence on the possible
antitrust concerns surrounding a deal
for Warner Brothers and Jonathan Pingle
of UBS previewing the December FOMC
meeting. We begin this hour with stocks
flat ahead of the latest Fed decision.
The team at Morgan Stanley expecting a
cut tomorrow, followed by two more next
year. Michelle Weaver of Morgan Stanley
writing, "This is a bullish setup for
stocks that are looking ahead towards
accelerating earnings revisions and Fed
cuts based on lagging moderate labor
weak market weakness." Michelle joins us
now. Michelle, thank you so much for
being with us.
>> Thank you.
>> It seems to all be predicated on the
idea that two rate cuts comes with
[clears throat] strong growth. What
gives you confidence that we are going
to get strong growth despite some of the
weakening that we've seen in recent
labor market metrics? Yeah. So, we think
that we've seen in the alternative data
more softness in the fall. So, I think
when we get the official numbers next
week, we are going to see more softness,
but that we're not going to get one of
those nonlinear uh really concerning
type rises in unemployment data. Uh we
think the setup is is really
constructive into next year for a
broadening in earnings. Uh if I think
about the past couple of years, it's all
been about the large cap stocks. It's
all been about those who are exposed to
the AI trade. We've seen a lot more
weakness under the surface for the
Russell 3000. Over the past couple of
years, earnings growth has been flat to
negative for most of those stocks. We
finally saw that turnaround last quarter
with those names growing 8%. So, we are
starting to see a more constructive
setup for that broadening. Um, and I
think that combined with a Fed that is
easing, but without a really concerning
spike in unemployment is a great setup
for stocks into next year. Is it as
simple as saying that some of these
smaller companies are deploying some of
these AI tools to be more efficient and
preserve some of their margins and
that's the reason why you might see it
now performance?
>> I think I think AI is certainly part of
that story when we when we think about
AI deployment next year I think is
really going to be the year of the AI
adopter. It's it's taken companies you
know a couple of years to work with the
technology to set up the guard rails to
retrain their employees to to really get
AI deployed. Um our tech team has a
great CIO survey. They think that by the
end of this year 60% of companies will
have at least one AI product live in the
field and then that will rise to 80% by
the end of next year. So we are finally
starting to see this wave of adoption
flow through the market.
>> Can you see that wave of adoption
without layoffs?
>> I think you can. I think it's I think
around the margin you may see some
companies do a little bit of layoffs but
it's largely going to be an incremental
story. I think a lot of the messaging
I've heard from CEOs on earnings calls
is we're going to keep headcount flat,
but we're going to be able to see more
growth. We're going to be able to do
more with the same number of employees
thanks to AI.
>> Do you think that AI can also continue
if the energy demand isn't quite there?
Are able to meet that demand?
>> Yeah, it's it's absolutely a tricky
setup around around the power world. Our
team has a great model where we take our
semiconductor analyst chip sales
forecasts, say what's the power needed
for that and how much power are we going
to need in the US. Uh through 2028,
we're forecasting a 47 gawatt shortfall
in power just through the traditional
grid interconnect power. Uh for scale,
that's around 10x the power consumed by
New York City. So that's a huge
shortfall, but there are a lot of
innovative type of solutions that that
can apply to this. So things
>> 10 New York cities short.
>> Mhm. Yes. Wow. um but through things
like natural natural gas turbines those
are behind the meter those are those are
apart from the grid interconnect process
and then bitcoin site conversions I
think are really interesting uh so some
of these companies have essentially
realized that the power that they're
sitting on is more valuable than some of
the underlying business uh we think
there's around 20 gawatt there so
there's a lot of power to be had there
and then nuclear is the last one that's
a little bit more politically
challenging but we may see some nuclear
for for that problem conversion sites
are you saying that people who
previously mined Bitcoin aren't
necessarily seeing the gains there and
so they're transforming that into fuel
essentially for artificial intelligence.
Is this
>> the sort of not the death of the Bitcoin
trade, but really the shifting in terms
of where the enthusiasms go that has
broader market implications?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I I wouldn't say it's
the death of the Bitcoin trade by any
means, but there were some Bitcoin
miners who'd amassed a ton of energy to
be able to do to do Bitcoin mining. And
they essentially saw, we're sitting on a
gold rush here. We have so much power.
These hyperscalers need power. They're
willing to pay a huge premium for it.
Let's just sell off the power. That's a
fascinating trend. Meanwhile, we've been
talking a lot about deals and how much
deals have been taking place both in the
AI and the tech space, but as well as
the media space and beyond. I'm just
wondering how that plays into some of
your forecasts. Is that a positive thing
or is that sort of a catalyst for
winners and losers that really will uh
differentiate the winners and losers
within the investing space in 2026?
>> Yeah, it's it's a very very positive
thing for us. We think that you're going
to continue to see pretty strong M&A and
capital markets activity into next year.
I think a lot of the hesitation we saw
this year was really around the public
policy front. What's going to happen on
tariffs? What's going to happen on the
regulatory front? How quickly are we
going to see deregulation? and where's
tax going? I think now that we're going
into next year with a little bit more
clarity on that policy picture, I think
you're going to continue to see some of
that corporate risk-taking, a little
more aggressiveness on the M&A front.
>> At a certain point, is the year of the
adapter rather than the adopter rather
than the year of the AI tech innovator?
Does that disadvantage the United States
over the rest of the world? as we see JP
Morgan come out this morning and say
they see the emerging equity market
outperforming the developed market one
for yet another year after years of
underperformance.
>> Yeah. So I I think that we're going to
continue to see that adoption really
ramp up and that broader diffusion is
what's going to really help the US
market. It's been so concentrated the
return story on the enabler side that as
we see that adopter story broaden out
that will be more constructive. On the
enabler side though we did have the
announcement so that company will see
some gains there. So there's a little
bit more gains to be had in the enabler
side, but I do think it's overall a
constructive setup.
>> When it comes to the real economy, is
the consumer holding up?
>> It's it's been really tricky for the
consumer. We uh we held our consumer
conference last week in New York and we
had over a 100 companies in attendance.
We got a pretty good read on the
consumer from that. I think one one key
takeaway there was the K economy is
still very much in place. We're really
still seeing that bifurcation between
higher income consumers and lower income
consumers. I think you're you're going
to start to see that continue into next
year, but that's really what companies
were talking about.
>> Is that what makes the Fed a little bit
more complicated next year?
>> I Yeah, I think there's some
complication there. I also want to bring
this back to the energy story that we
were talking about earlier.
Affordability concerns are huge and
there's been a lot of discussion around
is is this demand for AI power starting
to weigh on the consumer? So just
bringing those two conversations
together and we found that in certain
regions that activity has really
pressured consumer electricity bills in
the Mid-Atlantic those bills have risen
by about 18% where data center activity
is really concentrated.
>> Michelle Weaver of Morgan Stanley thank
you so much for being with us and have a
wonderful holiday season. To me, this
really is the key question, right? We
don't have a sense of the consumer and
exactly which way it's going to break
and kind of the optimism and level of it
really depends on whether you see that
ongoing strength.
>> And there's optimism right now because
we just had a stellar Black Friday and
Cyber Monday. You add inflation though,
does it look as rosy and then to
Michelle's point, this is why you saw
the results in Virginia and the results
in New Jersey. These are candidates who
ran on affordability and specifically
talked about electricity prices going
up. President Trump in Pennsylvania
today talking about just that. Right
now, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomer brief with Yhira Anihira.
>> Hi, Lisa. We're seeing CVS shares rising
2.3% in [music] the pre-market. The
healthcare company raised its fullear
profit forecast and said earnings would
rise in 2026. It's a sign of hope as it
navigates a turbulent retail
environment, plus government scrutiny
across the healthcare [music] industry
from vaccines to insurance.
Meanwhile, Apple's chip boss is denying
reports that he's leaving [music] the
company. Johnny Strogy telling staff in
a me memo, quote, "I love my team and I
love my job at Apple [music] and I don't
plan on leaving anytime soon." Apple is
undergoing its biggest personnel shakeup
in decades with senior executives
[music]
and key engineers leaving the company.
And Google is working to create two
different categories of [music] AI
powered smart glasses to compete with
existing products from Meta. The company
collaborating with Samsung, Warby
Parker, and Gentle Monster in the hopes
of creating a more refined product than
[music] its previous model, Google
Glass. That's your Bloomberg break.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yah. Up next, the
morning calls. Plus, Jennifer Re of
Bloomberg Intelligence on the possible
antitrust concerns surrounding a deal
for Warner Brothers. That's [music]
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> To me, AI is for real. you have to
invest a lot of money to do what this
proposes to do. Whether it's the data
centers, whether it's all the the
ancillary software and the design
changes to be made, but the companies
that are doing it are very well
positioned in terms of their balance
sheet. And when they borrow money, it's
probably because they rather keep the
cash on the balance sheet and just use
other people's money
>> and perhaps because that money isn't too
expensive. That was John Solzfus of
Oppenheimer ahead of that Fed meeting uh
that begins today, ends tomorrow with a
press conference with Jerome Powell as
he indicates what he sees in the year
ahead. Good morning. We're seeing right
now in markets a pretty quiet tone ahead
of that meeting really fluctuating
between gains and losses throughout all
of the big indices. We had seen Russell
2000 outperformance. Now we're about
unchanged in the bond space. It gets a
little more interesting based on some of
the moves that we've seen particularly
on the long end of the yield curve.
10-year yields now fluctuating between
uh gains and losses in terms of yields
and we are seeing just inflected a touch
bit higher after a sell-off leaving
those near the highest levels going back
to September. A number of investor
meetings uh over the past couple of
hours including Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo
CEO Charlie Sharf is speaking and he's
talking about the consumer how he is
seeing a strong level of consumer
spending. [music] Listen to this. Wages
outpacing inflation for the customer
base of Wells Fargo. not exactly
screaming this distress that so many
people are talking about.
>> No, it sounds rosy. It sounds
optimistic. Even holiday spending,
they're saying it's a touch [music]
higher year-over-year uh in the first
weeks. This points to especially what
you said about wages outpacing [music]
inflation. That points to a better 2026
than right now a lot of people are
talking about, [music] especially this
administration. The president's going to
be in Pennsylvania today because
affordability has been top of [music]
concern in polls and also in a lot of
the rhetoric when you hear from
retailers.
>> Yeah. And a key question for a lot of
investors heading into 2026. Do you
believe in the reaceleration of the US
consumer time now for the morning calls?
First [music] up, TD Cowan raising its
price target on Walmart to $136,
expecting profit growth to outpace sales
growth. Those shares up about a half a
percent. Next up, City lowering its
target on Nike to $70 ahead of next
week's earnings, highlighting ongoing
challenges in China. And finally,
Goldman Sachs upgrading Viking to buy,
setting a strong balance sheet and large
cash reserve. of those shares up 1.8%.
If you're wondering where is Jonathan
Pharaoh, [music] yes, he is with Little
Pharaoh, but he's also on a Viking
cruise uh cruising around the world. Can
you imagine that? You know, teaching him
about the world uh world out there.
Yeah, maybe next year. Turning to the
media and not that the bidding battle
for Warner Brothers is setting up an
antitrust test for the Trump
administration. and Republican Senator
Mike Lee, chair of the Senate Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition,
Policy, and Consumer Rights, writing,
"Buckle up for an intense antitrust
hearing in the Senate." Jennifer Ree of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now.
Jennifer, great to see you. Thank you so
much for being with us. So, let's just
start with what we understand about the
regulatory backdrop of the Trump
administration given that a lot of
people are talking about deregulation, a
more favorable outlook on tie-ups and on
business. Do you get that sense on the
the sign off so far on deals that have
happened?
>> I mean, absolutely. It's a really big
difference from the Biden
administration. And you know, the
interesting thing is that they kind of
threw me for a loop, the new officials
that were appointed by President Trump
to oversee antitrust. Because in the
beginning, they were talking really
tough. Hey, we have a lot more in common
with the Biden administration than you
would think, and we're going to be tough
on mergers. We want to protect the
American consumer. But so far, what
we're seeing is they're just pushing
them all through. sometimes with
remedies, but for the most part, they're
just not challenging these deals. And as
you mentioned when you first started to
ask me that question, there's a lot more
influence, I think, from the
administration with respect to antitrust
decisions, particularly when it comes to
M&A, than there has been in in the past.
>> I mean, the president said himself he'll
be somewhat involved. So, when it comes
to antitrust, can you walk us through
who has a better case in front of the
DOJ, Netflix or Paramount? So, my view
is that Paramount has a better case. And
it's kind of odd because actually, when
you think about it, Paramount has more
horizontal overlaps um with Warner
Brothers than does Netflix, but at the
end of the day, they're minimal. They're
lower than the the overlaps that Netflix
has. So, for instance, Paramount Plus
and streaming is a lot smaller than
Netflix. So, when you put it together
with HBO Max, those market shares are
lower. The numbers, the concentration
numbers that Department of Justice will
look at to understand whether this could
be anti-competitive are far lower. the
and then there's a box office overlap,
but that overlap is also fairly small as
well, even though there's been
consolidation in that sector.
>> Do you think it matters to the DOJ about
where the money is coming from? We're
talking about three sovereign wealth
funds in the Middle East as well as the
president of the United States
son-in-law's private equity firm.
>> It shouldn't matter um and it probably
won't matter. Now, if there's a lot of
non- US money coming in, the committee
on foreign investment in the US might
take a look at the deal because they
look at foreign investment in US assets,
but what I understand here is there
would be no management control. There
would be no voting shares, there would
be no board seat, and so it's very
likely that that's not really going to
be a problem. Now, the Department of
Justice shouldn't consider Jared
Kushner, the money coming from Jared
Kushner's equity fund um because they
really should be just evaluating this
based on the antitrust laws and that is
it. But it obviously could influence
what how President Trump sees it and
then that could result in pressure being
put from by the administration on the
Department of Justice for a certain
outcome. You know, you could argue that
actually Netflix has a better case when
it comes to the antitrust battle because
of the tie-up of the news organizations
in particular, especially given some of
the controversy of late with the
administration hoping for a change in
direction in different places. I mean,
how does that factor in the fact that
Paramount would be bidding for CNN and
for uh CBS, bringing them together
potentially, whereas the Netflix uh deal
would really separate the two?
>> Right. You bring up a great point that I
actually should have mentioned before
when I was talking about the overlaps.
Not only do I think that that overlap in
news could be problematic. Um I think an
overlap in a giant package of cable
networks that the company would have
could be problematic, but that kind of
issue is really easily fixed. That's
through divevestature. So in a normal
situation, what I would expect here is
the Department of Justice would probably
ask Paramount if it's the buyer to
divest CNN. But on the other hand, the
administration might be more interested
in CNN staying in the hands of
Paramount. Um, right? Because it's the
Ellison's family and these are the
Ellisons are aligned with him. So in
this situation, maybe that wouldn't
happen. But I could see them asking the
company to divest some of the cable
networks because when they have that big
a bundle, it put gives them a lot of
leverage over distributors.
>> I wonder if you take a step back how
difficult it is to really understand
what a monopoly is at a time when
industries are so profoundly changing.
the idea that Netflix could argue that
their big competitor is YouTube, not
necessarily one of the other streaming
networks, one of the Paramounts or uh or
or the like. So, how do you sort of
think about what the competitive
landscape is at a time where our
attention is being split into different
places?
>> That is a actually a really really good
question because that's what it's going
to be all about and that's actually what
most merger arguments are all about. How
do you define the market? How do you put
your arms around or put your circle
around the sphere of competition, who's
in and who isn't, because that's what
dictates market share, and that's what
dictates market concentration. Netflix
will absolutely argue that the market is
broader, that it should include any kind
of video, anything that's taking the
attention of eyeballs where somebody's
watching video, whether it be YouTube or
Tik Tok or just standard oldfashioned
television, right? Um, but the way the
Department of Justice looks at this, and
they actually use really complicated
econometric modeling to try to figure
this out. They have economists on staff
and they look at it from a consumer
substitutability
perspective, right? They ask if a person
has subscribes to a service or product,
they don't like the price, they don't
like the quality, and they want to
switch, what will they switch to? And
anything that they might switch to gets
included in that market. And when the
consumer doesn't switch, and again, this
is done through economic modeling. That
defines your market. And I think there
probably is a pretty good argument that
at least for some class of consumers,
they wouldn't view something like
YouTube as a substitute for streaming on
streaming video on demand.
>> Jennifer, what's the timeline? When do
you think the DOJ would wrap this up?
>> Once Warner Brothers chooses their
partner.
>> Yeah. Once we have a deal, once that
deal is filed, I think you're looking at
a year or more. These things take a long
time. They do an investigation. They
issue a big subpoena called a second
request for information asking for data
and documents. They have to companies
have to turn those over which takes a
long time. The Department of Justice has
to digest it and then they go in with
the economists and they make arguments
in defense of their deal and it it
really does tend to take about a year
sometimes up to 18 months.
>> Jennifer Ree, wonderful to get your
thoughts. Thank you so much for being
with us. That's Bloomberg's Jennifer Ree
on the latest in the antitrust issues
surrounding this case. Uh meanwhile, we
are getting some weekly ADP employment
data that does inflect the positive.
Michael McKe of Bloomberg joining us now
for more. Mike, what do we see?
>> Well, we see that ADP in the four weeks
leading up to November 22nd that the
economy added, according to ADP, an
average of 4,750 jobs, which is an
improvement over the 13,000 or so that
were lost the average week before. But
the problem is we don't exactly know how
to use this. The Fed's been using this
data for quite some time, which helps
them in the absence of the non-farm
payrolls numbers at least get a sense of
where the economy is. But when you have
uh wide swings like we've seen in the
last couple of weeks in terms of these
uh four-week averages, it's hard to know
exactly where that leaves you for the
end of the month. And we're going to
have to wait until next week,
unfortunately, a week from today uh
before we get the next payroll numbers
uh from November. And we won't even get
all of the October numbers. So, make of
it what you will. It's a little bit
better uh news, but it doesn't
necessarily tell us what we saw in the
month of November. Michael McKe, thank
you so much. This would be the first
positive read from this new ADP report.
Uh for after four straight weeks of
negative reads, we also are seeing
something about the small business
front. This is something that ADP come
points out saying that in general,
smallest business establishments lost
120,000 jobs in November, while medium
and large firms added 90,000 jobs. Sort
of speaking to that K-shaped market
within corporate America. At least
though to Mike's point, this is
direction of travel better based on what
we had previously heard from ADP. So
they are adding more jobs in this weekly
basis. Does it move the needle for the
Fed? I don't think so. The Fed is still
somewhat in a fog. And as Mike says,
we're really not going to get a little
bit more of a clearer picture until next
week,
>> which is a reason why people are looking
for potentially getting some information
that is delayed from non-farm payrolls.
Coming up, we'll talk about that and
what the Fed will do with that with
Jonathan Pingle of UBS with that
December FOMC meeting kicking off today.
Plus, Danny Burgerer with your morning
movers. Another check on Paramount as
the company goes allin on Warner
Brothers. Those shares up two [music]
ten of a percent in markets more
broadly. A real question of long-term
bond yields and how much they've [music]
climbed over the past couple of
sessions. Do they continue that ascent
as the global bond sell-off takes hold
right now in markets fluctuating [music]
between gains and losses as people
ratchet back some of their expectations
for next year's Fed rate cuts. From New
York, this is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
Right now you've got stocks fluctuating
between gains and losses. The futures a
little changed across the board. There
had been the outperformance in [music]
the Russell 2000. Do we continue that
heading into the Fed meeting Tuesday's
tens and 30s? So much depends on that
long-term bond yield after the sell-off
[music] that we have seen. A question
around the global influence versus the
domestic one on the front end of the
yield curve. you have seen a bit more of
a skepticism in terms of how much the
Fed can cut rates. 95% chance that they
are going to cut in uh tomorrow's
announcement. [music] At the same time,
next year, ratcheting back those
expectations. A little bit of a bid
coming in to the long end. One hour away
from the cash [music] open. Here are
your mornings with Danny Burgerer.
Danny, hey Lisa, it's the drama between
Paramount, Skyance, Warner Brothers, and
Netflix. You are looking at Paramount
Sky Dance. Those shares are up about
half a percent. They are were up more
than 1% in the pre-market trade just
moments ago, but it does seem like the
odds keep shifting around who will be
buying. Warner Brothers Discovery, the
latest on Poly Market has them in the
lead with [music] this new bid, and
we've learned about the backing. A lot
of Middle Eastern sovereign wealth
funds, uh, Jared Kushner's affinity
[music] and the Ellison family.
Meanwhile, some reconstitution for the
S&P 500. We've learned that Aries is
going to be added to it. It gets a lot
of passive flow when companies get added
to the S&P 500. So, those shares up
7.7%. [music]
Kellenova that will be kicked out.
Finally, ending things with Home Depot
around 6:00 a.m. we got an update from
Home Depot on their investor day saying
uh that they expect [music] for next
year comparable same store sales but to
be between 0ero to 2%. That does not
suggest that a recovery is on the way
and with that tepid forecast shares are
[music] dropping by 2.6%. Lisa, thank
you so much Danny. Of course, they did
give a rosio scenario, but said they
haven't seen that rebound in the housing
market [music] just yet. Meanwhile, the
FOMC's 2-day meeting kicking off today.
President Donald Trump issuing a test
for the next Fed chair.
>> You're going to pick a new Fed chair
soon. Is it a litmus test that the new
chair lower interest rates immediately?
>> Yes.
Well, this guy too should too, but I
think he's a combination of not a smart
person and doesn't like Trump. Michael
McKe, Bloomberg economics and policy
correspondent joins us now for more. And
Mike, we are going to be talking about
at Nauseium, the race to be the next Fed
chair. A question though about how much
clout uh Jerome Powell still has in his
meeting at the end of this year
tomorrow.
>> Well, I think Pal still has uh enormous
respect from members of the open market
committee and even if we get to sense,
it's not going to reflect necessarily on
him, but it will reflect on the
circumstances. The issue with the
president's comment today is he's
setting his Fed chair nominee up for
sort of a walk-in the door failure
because the markets are going to look at
the guy and say uh at this point we
don't trust you because you're there to
do something the president wants rather
than what the economy tells you to do.
That's been something that uh Kevin
Hasset who is the betting favorite has
tried to talk down and here is the
president seeming to undercut him a
little bit.
>> Yeah. Which is the reason why it's
notable that yesterday when Kevin Hasset
was speaking, he actually really
diminished the idea of giving some sort
of six-month plan of how much he planned
to cut in the first half of 2026 should
he become Fed chair. There is a feeling
that whoever becomes the head of the US
central bank has to build credibility in
markets and on the Federal Reserve
committee.
>> Absolutely. And that's going to be a
real test for anyone that President
Trump nominates because he's been so
firm in criticizing the Fed and
criticizing Jay Pal. We don't know
whether Pal is going to stay on the Fed
or not as a governor if he's not chair
anymore. It's a bit of leverage that he
has over the president. He has suggested
to people that he might stay if he
doesn't think the new Fed chair has
credibility or could do damage to the
Fed. So, that's going to be a political
question to watch going forward along
with the whole question of whether or
not the president's going to be able to
fire Lisa Cook. A decision that would
probably come after Powell is gone. Uh
but if uh the president was able to do
that and Powell decided to leave, then
Donald Trump would have a lot of space
to fill spots on the Federal Reserve
Board.
>> Michael McKe, thank you so much and we
look forward to catching up with you uh
throughout the day and tomorrow
certainly as that Fed meeting concludes.
We are hearing from Kevin Hassie
yesterday. Uh he did say that the Fed's
chair Fed chair's job is to watch the
data and to adjust and to explain what
they're doing and why. He also went on
to say that to say I'm going to do this
over the next six months would be
irresponsible. Even though people have
talked about a six-month plan for any
Trump appointee if he is the front
runner and he knows he's going to get
the nod, he's setting himself up to gain
more of that credibility as you said
with his committee members. I'm not
coming in here wanting to cut interest
rates every single meeting. We have to
look at the data, how the economy is
digesting all of this and then make
decisions that make sense for both sides
of their mandate. Well, let's stick with
the Fed's head of the tomorrow's rate
decision. Jonathan Pinkle of UBS
writing, "We expect a large majority of
FOMC members to support a 25 basis point
rate cut. Expect few changes to the dot
plot and no change to median assumption
of appropriate policy." Jonathan joins
us now. Good morning, Jonathan. Thanks
for being here.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> So, let's just start with a question of
what you expect to learn tomorrow if you
don't think we're going to get any
adjustments.
>> Well, I think we are going to get a
certain amount of communications out of
Chair Powell assessment of the risks,
you know, how he's viewing the outlook,
you know, what what what kind of bar he
might have in mind for future cuts. Um,
you know, the market's been pretty, um,
you know, pretty anchored to sort of
having the year-end target range kind of
around 3% at the end of next year. I
think a lot of that is the discussion
you were just having on the next Fed
share. Um, but I think for the remainder
of Chair Powell's tenure, you know, he
still is balancing these mixed signals.
I mean, you just heard the Home Depot
news. Um, you know, he's got kind of
weak residential, weak non-residential,
kind of weak soggy labor market. You
know, how does he balance that against
the inflation? And I think those are
going to be important questions uh to
assess as we go through the press
conference tomorrow.
>> How different is it that we might see
four dissents for the first time going
back 30 years on the FOMC committee?
>> Well, it's not that unusual
historically. I mean, you know, if you
look back and you think about um you
sort of the Greenspan era where Chairman
Greenspan really um with a lot of
manipulative skill, I would add having
watched him um you know really
controlled the committee. And then you
had um you know sort of the GFC, the
Bernani era where you know you know Ben
was just the extraordinarily
correct scholarly choice for the moment.
Um and then you had you know the
pandemic and the inflation. So it was
sort of an era where um you know there
were sort of a lot of all hands-on deck
moments. So I'm not surprised we haven't
seen a lot of descents lately. But if
you look historically descents are
really the norm. It's it's it's
unanimity is kind of the exception. I
also think Cher Powell's I I' I'd bet he
gets fewer than four a sense. And I
mean, and and you were talking about the
clout earlier. What kind of clout does
he have at this point? I think it's more
earned respect. I mean, he's the one
who's been pounding the pavement up on
Capitol Hill. He's the one who is being,
you know, tweeted about. He's too late.
Do you know what I mean? Like I I think
he's he's he's really done a lot to
incorporate the views of his uh his
committee. Um I think at the end of his
tenure he's just kind of earned some
deference at this point.
>> As an institution though actually don't
descents show the credibility that this
is a deliberative body and it's not
we're just going to all line up where
the chair is at least for the future if
you are concerned about potentially
someone that is very close to the
president of the United States.
>> Sure. I mean sure I mean descents are
super healthy. Uh but you you also don't
even need the descents, right? I mean we
can hear Beth Hammock even though she's
not a voter. she's not going to descent,
but she clearly she disagrees with this
policy. So, you certainly do have that
kind of um open debate and that's
something that's, you know, certainly, I
think, going to play out and remain a a
feature for the next FOMC as well next
year.
>> So, when you look into next year and the
next FOMC, how many cuts do you have
based baked in for next year? And does
it matter who the Fed chair is?
>> Uh, I have two. What are the cuts?
>> And yes, it does. Yes, it does, I think,
matter who the Fed chair is. I mean,
you know, we're all talking about Kevin
Hassid. I mean, I've known Kevin for a
long time. And Kevin actually has um,
you know, in terms of his ability to
build credibility. He's got, I think,
kind of three key features that would
make him sort of an effective Fed share.
One is his academic publication record's
pretty impressive. Um, if you think
about the peer-reviewed journals he's
published in, he has incredibly
well-sighted papers. Second, he was on
the board staff and is an incredibly
astute data expert of himself with
knowledge of a lot of that staff and how
they use the data. And third, he's
really um I mean Kevin's nice. I mean,
he's really collegial, right? I mean, I
I think that will go over well in terms
of um trying to work with his
colleagues. Um but I also think that
that combination is going to help him
win debates at the table.
>> So, we talk often about Fed policy as
being rate cuts, but when we talk to
equity strategists for 2026, they talk
about the use of the balance sheet. They
talk about quantitative easing in
another name and we hear that from
Morgan Stanley. We hear of that from
Bank of America. We hear that from Black
Rockck. The sort of monetization of the
debt that already is transpiring with
respect to a focus on Ta bills and the
potential purchases disproportionately
on the balance sheet. How much are you
looking for that type of activity in the
background regardless of potentially a
tempered view of how many rate cuts this
Fed can make?
>> Yeah, I know. I I mean I'm expecting
them to start outright expanding their
securities holdings in January. Um, and
a lot of that is though I think you know
if you if you look at the level of
reserve balances and what's happening in
repo it does look like it's starting to
get a little tight. So I I do think that
they are going to have what they would
call a reserve management purchase
program. Regular purchases of tea bills
I think they probably start around $40
billion a month but I think that's
probably going to have to get up to 60
by the end of the year. Um really just
because they've got other liabilities
that are rising over time. um you
clearly seem to be sort of in this ample
reserve regime where you're putting
upward pressure on the effective funds
rate. I mean the spread to IRBs narrowed
uh steadily over the last month and a
half. Um so I I do think they're at a
point they need to actually start adding
liquidity instead of draining
>> which is what a lot of people are
mentioning and they say that the
sell-off that we saw in big tech was
largely driven by the withdrawal of Fed
liquidity reaching that tipping point of
reserves. I'm just wondering how much is
this a technical issue in the markets
and how much is this outright asset
buying and monetization of the debt?
>> So there is an element of monetization
of the debt. Um I I I'm I'm skeptical at
how much that's driving high frequency
uh equity market moves. I mean it is the
case that if you got more volatility in
repo markets and higher repo rates,
you're going to have you know higher
cost for funding leveraged positions in
equity markets. But um you know I think
what's happening in the background of
the Fed balance sheet is they've kind of
gone too far. They need to reverse it.
But I don't really think this is going
to be some sort of flood of additional
liquidity. I think they are going to try
to temper uh how much they are actually
adding and I think the risk is they
probably heir on adding too little.
>> Okay. So if that's the case, I guess how
do you game out the idea that we might
see Fed rate cuts in addition to fiscal
stimulus in addition to a reacelerating
US consumer at a time where inflation
has still been relatively sticky? Do you
see this as creating a problem for the
10-year and a Federal Reserve that might
be motivated to try to cap some of those
yields?
>> I don't think it's going to be that much
of a problem for the 10-year mainly just
because we are getting some good news on
the forward inflation indicators, right?
I mean, if we look at the composition of
inflation right now, we're seeing sort
of core goods exused cars sort of turn
up. can see the tariffs slowly passing
through, but the forward uh indic
indicators that we're getting on things
like the slowing in rents have actually
really gone the Fed's way. Um, you know,
we've got among the higher estimates of
inflation on the street, but by the
second half of next year, we're still
back to 2 and a.5% or below on
annualized run rate. So, um, you know,
the Fed's sort of got the, you know,
some tailwinds here on inflation. you
know, the Fed credibility, you know,
we'll see how much they try to push
rates lower, but I do think that um
you'll start to hear a much more
credible case about the supply side um
and in a way that I think it'll
alleviate at least some um investors
concerns over whether this is really
going to be sort of a FOMC that runs a
muk.
>> So, you don't agree with the hawks about
this concerns about inflation, but how
do you view the labor market next year?
>> Well, I'm I'm sympathetic to the Hawks
argument. I mean like they haven't hit
their target in 5 years, right? It's
going to be going on too, right? Yeah.
At some point it's going to look it's
going to look bad if if inflation does
stay sticky. Um but you know I do think
they face a problem with the labor
market. I mean you've had residential
investment contracting structures
investment, government spending and
investment even without the shutdown's
been unusually weak for the US and
consumer spending's been mixed, right? I
mean upper income's doing well but we're
seeing other parts that aren't. So the
labor market is weak for a reason. And
if the labor market turns into more
obvious contraction, you really could
have households pull back in earnest.
So, you know, thinking about sort of
Chair Powell's risk management
framework, you know, the potential cost
to the economy of, you know, an
unemployment rate that doesn't stop
going up. Um, you know, I can see why he
wanted to kind of address, you know,
there wasn't a whole lot of reason to
slow the labor market when it's already
weakening too much and there's not a lot
the funds rate is going to do to stop
the cost push inflation of tariffs. So I
do think his calculus makes a little bit
of sense.
>> Jonathan Bingle, wonderful to see you.
Wonderful to have you in studio and
hopefully we'll see you soon. Jonathan
Bingle of UBS joining us here right now.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here is your Bloomer brief on
Antihira. Hi Lisa. Paramount Skyance
launching a hostile takeover bid for
Warner Brothers. The move coming just
days after the company agreed to a deal
with Netflix.
>> [music]
>> offer stands at $30 a share in cash
compared with Netflix's cash and stock
bid of just under $28 per share.
President Donald Trump, whose son-in-law
Jared Kushner is participating in the
Paramount bid, is downplaying his
[music] involvement, saying he's not
close to Paramount nor Netflix.
Meanwhile, President Trump granted
Nvidia permission to ship its H200
[music]
AI chip to China in exchange for a 25%
cut of the sales. The move means the
world's most valuable company could
regain billions of dollars in [music]
lost business. The president says the
sales would only go to quote approved
customers and [music] that chip makers
such as Intel and AMD would also be
eligible. And PepsiCo announcing a
series of [music] operational changes
backed by activist investor Elliot
Management. The moves include cutting
nearly 20% [music] of its US product
lineup, investing in more affordable
products, and planning layoffs in North
America. Elliot says the plan will drive
greater revenue and [music] profit
growth. That's your Bloomberg brief.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Yhierra. Up next,
setting you up for the day ahead. Plus,
Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo as the White House
reverses its stance on selling Nvidia
chips to China. You see Nvidia shares
and AMD shares rising in response. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> There's been so much back and forth on
this and my recollection is that that
the [music] H200 chip was one that was
actually developed specifically to be
exported as opposed to some of the other
chips. I think that there is an argument
to be made [music] on both sides. One
for security and one also for you want
the paradigm to be the technology that
we are exporting as opposed to letting
people develop technology. [music] That
was Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods
on Nvidia exporting H200 chips to China
after President Trump reversed his
stance on it. Uh you did see Nvidia
shares and AMD shares rising in
pre-market trading as a result of that.
Intel also potentially included although
not necessarily participating as much
based on just what their export [music]
models could be. S&P futures fading
throughout the morning had been up
almost a tenth of a percent now lower uh
by less than uh 10 basis points. So not
a significant decline nonetheless really
a focus on what we get from Jolt's job
openings later this morning and what
that means for the Federal Reserve.
10ear yields a little bit lower by about
two basis points after that ADP data
[music] came out 4.1468%.
Meanwhile, what we are focused on right
now counting down to the opening bell,
your trading diary for the week ahead,
those 10 a.m. Eastern, October Jolts
data. Tomorrow at 2 p.m. Eastern, we get
the FOMC rate decision, followed by Fed
Share J Powell's press conference,
employment cost index before that, plus
earnings from Oracle after the closing
bell. Thursday, another round of jobless
claims as well as earnings from Broadcom
as well as Costco. A real question about
how they're lining up with the tariffs.
Friday, we finished the week hearing
from Fed presidents Anna Pollson, Beth
Hammock, [music] and Austin Goulsby.
Turning back to one of our top stories,
President Trump allowing Nvidia to sell
its H200 chips to China. Bloomberg's Ed
Ledllo joins us from San Francisco with
more. Ed, how much of a reversal is this
in at Silicon Valley given the fact that
it seems like there is a shift in the
approach to national security
>> as a point of export control policy? A
big shift and you know I think even
Bloomberg Economics published a note on
it which I enjoyed reading because the
H200 is a piece of technology at the
center of export control policy that the
soundbite that you played from your last
guest is interesting. What is the H200?
It is many times more powerful than the
H20 which was specifically designed as a
deprecated chip for the Chinese market.
Right? And this is a debate the three of
us have discussed this week and many
weeks prior that the position of Nvidia
and Jensen Wong has been it won't work
to export a deprecated chip to China.
They won't accept it. The H200 is a is a
is a cutting edge chip. It is one
generation removed from Blackwell that's
available to technology companies in
America, but it's highly performant. Um,
and so it does mark this shift in the
the spectrum of China hawkishness. We've
gone from a position where loads of
people in the president's orbit are okay
with exporting a deprecated chip to now
being okay with exporting a more
powerful chip. But of course, across the
political divide, there are many
national security concerns and the
ball's now in China's court because we
don't really know if China even wants
it.
>> Right? That's a big question. Does China
even want it? The Financial Times has
some reporting that potentially they're
going to have a review process and some
firms may get access to it if they can
show the reasons why they need this
instead of using a Chinese company's
chip. But Ed, if Nvidia is able to sell
a lot of these H200s into China or China
really opens up the door, what kind of
money are we talking about for the
bottom line?
>> Yeah, look at the trading of Nvidia
shares in the immediate aftermath of the
president's true social post through to
this morning and it momentum was lost
very quickly. The baseline assumption
for Nvidia right now is zero revenue
from China within this fiscal year and
next fiscal year. But of course when
this news hit the analysts quickly
remodel to work out how much revenue is
possible in China. Jensen Wong has said
that this is a $50 billion market
opportunity. Um but the issue is the
degree to which they can uh work with
China on that. You know you're right.
The reporting reflects that China's
position is to say particularly to
statebacked enterprise we want you to
first prioritize using domestic chips
that are massively supply constrained
before using the H200. So again,
Nvidia's baseline assumption is zero
revenue from China, although they'd love
it. And now the analysts between them
have a very wide range of estimates of
what's realistic in in the fiscal 27
year.
>> All this is in exchange for a 25%
tariff. But Ed, I remember in the summer
there was that 15% that was supposed to
go to the US government. Has the US
government seen a dime of that?
>> No. And it's interesting. You will
remember in August I spoke to Nvidia's
CFO Klet Crest who is a classic CFO, a
very experienced CFO and she made the
point that they are an American public
company. They are bound by SEC
regulations and by the Sarbain Oxley Act
and there is nothing codified or in
existence in the legislature that
provides for a mechanism where a company
can issue a search charge to the United
States government in this case of 25%.
So the my basic working understanding is
that of course this is a discussion
that's taken place between the president
and Jensen Wong but we need to see some
specifics from the relevant regulatory
agencies and and government bodies on
how it would work in practice. Um there
are going to be loads of compliance and
um finance teams watching surveillance
right now going oh I was thinking that
as well I think because that's the
basics of how a public company works in
this country. Ed Lello, thank you so
much as always for the insights in this
developing story uh with a real focus on
big tech and how much it can continue to
drive the economy. Now, right now, our
focus is very much going to shift to
what we get from Jolt's job openings
data. We did get this ADP report earlier
this morning. As Mike was saying, hard
to know what to do. It's a new series of
data. Nonetheless, this really stands
out to me. the focus on small businesses
with ADP and coming out and saying that
last week's ADP national employment
report showed that small business
establishments lost 120,000 jobs in
November and medium and large firms
added 90,000. This is a tale of two
corporate sizes and this is what we hear
across the board. This is what Nila who
is at ADP and our Bloomberg contributor
said to us last week. She was concerned
about what was going on in the small
business space, not these big
executives. And Gene Srooka, who's
running the port of LA, was talking
about how it's these big retailers are
able to mitigate all the supply chain
disruptions, all the concerns around
tariffs. It's the small businesses.
Those are the ones that are having a lot
of issues when it comes to margins and
potentially that's why they're laying
people off.
>> And that's a reason why the Fed is
having a hard time getting their hands
around this because on one hand, you are
seeing big companies do just fine. You
aren't necessarily seeing the price
increases, but you are seeing job losses
in some key areas. We do get that Fed
meeting kicking off today, finishing
tomorrow with the press conference.
Widely expected to be a 25 basis point
rate cut uh at tomorrow's meeting. The
look ahead could be really interesting.
Kevin Hassad in the front seat in terms
of who's going to be the next Fed chair.
In his interview yesterday, really
talking about how he isn't going to give
some sort of sense of how many rate cuts
he's going to give. He really is going
to be data dependent,
>> right? But that's the one question the
president of the United States is going
to ask. And we know this because this is
what happened in his first term. Are you
going to cut interest rates? That's all
he wants to know. Kevin Hass might be
able to say I'm going to cut them at the
next meeting. At least that's where my
vote would be, but I can't tell you
where I'm going 6 12 months time. He's
clearly trying to build credibility for
potentially his future colleagues. Right
now, we're looking at markets that are
trying to discover some sort of Santa
rally coming up tomorrow. Julian Emanuel
of Evercore ISI, Erica Nagarian of UBS,
Chris Harvey of CIBC, and Chevron CEO
Mike Worth with huge demands on the
energy sector. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.